Temperature Relationships of Great Lakes Fishes:

                               A Data Compilation

                               by

                             Donald A. Wismer '
                                       and

                               Alan E. Christie

Great Lakes Fishery Commission Special Publication No. 87-3

Citation: Wismer, D.A. and A.E. Christie. 1987. Temperature
     Relationships of Great Lakes Fishes: A Data Compilation.
    Great Lakes Fish. Comm. Spec. Pub. 87-3. 165 p.

             GREAT LAKES FISHERY COMMISSION
                             1451 Green Road

                          Ann Arbor, Ml48105
                                     USA

                                 July, 1987

           1 Environmental Studies & Assessments Dept.
             Ontario Hydro

               700 University Avenue, Location H10 F2

             Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X6
            Canada
                                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS    Page
                                                                               1
1.0 INTRODUCTION
1.1 Purpose                                                                    2
1.2 Summary                                                                    2
1.3 Literature Review                                                          2
1.4 Database Advantages and Limitations                                        3
2.0 METHODS                                                                    9
2.1 Species List                                                               9
2.2 Database Design Considerations                                            10
2.3 Definition of Terms                                                       18
3.0 DATABASE SUMMARY                                                          29
3.1 Organization                                                              29
3.2 Content
4.0 REFERENCES                                                              Page
5.0 FISH TEMPERATURE DATABASE                                                 11
5.1 Abbreviations                                                             15

                                                           LIST OF TABLES   Page
                                                                                5
         Great Lakes Fish Species and Types of Temperature Data
         Alphabetical Listing of Reviewed Fish Species by
         Common Name

                                                           LIST OF FIGURES

         Diagram Showing Temperature Relations of Fish
 1.0 INTRODUCTION

 1.1 Purpose

 The purpose of this report is to compile a temperature database for Great Lakes fishes. The database
was prepared to provide a basis for preliminary decisions concerning the siting, design, and environ-
 mental performance standards of new generating stations and appropriate mitigative approaches to
 resolve undesirable fish community interactions at existing generating stations.

The contents of this document should also be useful to fisheries research and management agencies
in the Great Lakes Basin.

1.2 Summary

The data base provides easy and rapid access to temperature data on fish species in terms of
temperature categories which are pertinent to assessment of thermal effects on fish populations.

Thermal criteria for 116 fish species inhabiting the Great Lakes are summarized from published
scientific literature. These data are categorized in four tables for each species as follows:

(1) Lethal temperatures and thermal resistances

(2) Temperature preferences and avoidances

(3) Optimal and limiting temperatures for growth

(4) Temperatures for reproduction and early development

The database tables are preceded by a brief text. The contents of the text are summarized in this
paragraph. Section 1.3 is a review of similar literature. Section 1.4 presents a short discussion of the
advantages and limitations of this report. The methods are outlined in Section 2.0. Section 2.1 is a
discussion of the species list. The format used for the temperature data tables is described in detail in
Section 2.2. The terms used in the database tables are defined in Section 2.3. A brief overview of the
content of the temperature database tables is provided in Section 3.0. Section 3.1 explains the species
cataloguing and organization. The distribution of temperature data across species is described in
Section 3.2. References for the text and database tables are in Section 4.0. Section 5.0 is the fish
temperature database, the first page of which is a list of abbreviations.

1.3 Literature Review

The published information on the temperature requirements of freshwater fishes is found in thou-
sands of documents. It is convenient that several authors have condensed this information into
reviews of the literature. The general reviews of fisheries biology by Carlander (1969,1977) and Scott
and Crossman (1973) include some temperature data. Several reviewers have focussed on
thermobiology, specifically: lethal and/or preference temperatures (Coutant 1977a; Cherry et al 1977;
Kowalski et al 1978; Houston 1982). Others have widened their reviews to include data on growth,
preference and lethal temperatures (Leidy and Jenkins 1977; McCauley and Casselman 1980; Jobling
1981). Comprehensive reviews on the whole range of temperature requirements for fishes (i.e., lethal.
preference, growth, reproductive) were given by EPA (1974) and Brown (1974).

                                                                 1
A summary of thermal effects literature is published each year for aquatic organisms in the June issue
of the Journal of the Water Pollution Control Federation (Talmage and Coutant 1978, 1979, 1980;
Cravens 1981, 1982; Cravens et al 1983; Harrelson et al 1984).

The temperature requirements of Great Lakes fishes have been reviewed by two authors. Firstly,
Reutter and Herdendorf (1976) presented lethal and preference temperatures for 46 species of Lake
Erie fishes. Secondly, Spotila et al (1979) reviewed 80 species covering: thermal requirements for
survival, temperature preference, growth, reproduction and early development.

1.4 Database Advantages and Limitations

The major limitation of this document is its lack of an overall synthesis. The initial terms of reference
did not provide for any attempt to integrate the data into summary values, figures or discussion. A
brief overview of the distribution of temperature data among families of species is provided in Section
3.0. The reader is referred elsewhere for scholarly discussion of the use and application of fish
temperature data (Cherry et al 1977; Richards et al 1977; Spotila et al 1979; McCauley and Casselman
1980; Jobling 1981; Mathur et al 1981; Houston 1982; Giattinna and Garton 1982; Ellis 1984).

The data summary in this report enjoys several advantages over other similar reviews. One of these is
that it is current. This is the only compilation in the published literature since 1982. More importantly,
the scope of the review is wider than any previous one in relation to the total species coverage and
scope of thermobiological information. Furthermore, the design of the database tables makes for easy
data access which aids comparisons within and across species. Access to the review of data by Spotila
et al (1979) was hindered by the use of inconsistent categories of data within each table.

2.0 METHODS

2.1 Species List

The species list for this study was compiled from Christie (1982) and Scott and Crossman (1973). A
total of 116 Great Lakes fishes were included. This species total is representative for the Great Lakes
(Manny 1984).

Several species were omitted that no longer have a Great Lakes distribution. These species were:
Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar); blue pike (Stizostedion vitreum glaucom); deepwater cisco (Coregonus
johannae); and blackfin cisco (Coregonus nigripinnis) (Scott and Crossman 7973; McAllister et al
 1985). The only species of the family Petromyzontidae represented in this summary was the sea
lamprey (Petromyzon marinus). Three other Great Lakes species of this family not included in this
summary were:. northern brook lamprey (Ichthyomyzon fossor); silver lamprey (Ichthyomyzon
unicuspis); american brook lamprey /Lampetra lamottei). Also, I have included the stoneroller
(Campostoma anomalum) in the database since it is reported to have a marginal Great Lakes
distribution (Scott and Crossman 1973; Spotila et al 7979; McAllister et al 1985).

2.2 Database Design Considerations

The design of the temperature database was developed after review of the literature, some of which
was cited in Section 1.4. The goal was to structure a database format that would accommodate the
major thermal requirements for fishes. These temperature requirements have been identified by
others as pertaining to: survival, temperature preference; growth; reproduction and early develop-
ment (EPA 1974; Gift 1977; Jobling 1981; Giattinna and Garton 1982). The temperature criteria for
preference - avoidance and survival are useful for predicting short-term direct effects on fish

                                                                       2
 behaviour and metabolism. The thermal requirements for reproduction and growth provide a basis
for estimating the long-term sublethal effects of unnatural temperature change on fish populations.

2.3 Definition of Terms

The types of data furnished in the fish temperature database are described and defined in this Section.
All temperatures are in degrees Celsius. Data are listed under the scientific name of the fish species,
arranged in alphabetical order. Within each species category, the information is organized in four
different tables. These tables are titled as follows in order of their appearance in the database:

(1) THERMAL TOLERANCES
(2) PREFERRED TEMPERATURES

(3) GROWTH TEMPERATURES

(4) SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES

The types of temperature data found within each of these four major categories are described below.

(1) THERMAL TOLERANCES

This table contains data on laboratory-derived lethal temperatures and thermal resistances. These
temperature thresholds were observed in experiments that were explicitly designed to measure
thermal doses. Other lethal temperaturevalues were reported in the literature from laboratory studies
whose experimental designs did not conform to the accepted standards for determination of thermal
tolerances and resistances. These standard methods are described in Fry et al (1946) and McCauley
(1981). These latter temperature values and those reported from the field studies are less reliable than
those derived from standard experimental designs. The less robust estimates of thermal tolerances
are reported elsewhere in the table entitled: SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES.
These include lethal temperature thresholds for entrainment, heat shock and cold shock.

(a) Size or Age:
         Lethal temperatures vary with size and age of fish. The various descriptions of size and age used
         in the database are explained in Section 5.0.

(b) A c c l i m a t i o n T e m p e r a t u r e :
         The acclimation temperature is defined as a constant temperature in the laboratory at which
         fish have been held for a time sufficiently long to erase the influence of previous thermal
         exposure (McCauley 1981).

(4 Acclimation Time:
         The time for holding fish at a given acclimation temperature. This is usually assumed a
         standard seven days unless reported otherwise.

(d) Season:
        Lethal temperatures vary seasonally. See Section 5.0 for abbreviations used in the database.

                                                                  3
 (4 Upper Incipient Lethal Temperature:

           and

 (f) Lower Incipient Lethal Temperature:

         The upper and lower incipient lethal temperatures represent the temperature values beyond
         which 50 percent of the population can no longer live given an indefinite period of time
          (Giattinna and Garton 1982). A standard seven-day week is used as the lethal test exposure time
          (McCauley 1981). The incipient lethal levels define the upper and lower boundaries to the "zone
         of thermal tolerance" within which there is no mortality from temperature (Figure 1).
(g) Thermal Resistance Equation:
         A glance at Figure 1 will show a "zone of thermal resistance "located above the upper incipient
         lethal temperature. Within this zone, mortality due to temperature extremes occurs as a
         function of time. The length of time that 50 percent of the population will survive temperatures
         above the upper incipient lethal temperature is calculated from a regression relationship as
         follows:

         log (time in minutes) = a + b (temperature in "C),

         where a and b are the intercept and slope, respectively, determined from each acclimation
         temperature (EPA 1974).

         The values of the intercept a and slope b are provided to four decimal places in the fish
         temperature database tables. The value of b is almost always negative and is preceded by a
         minus sign in the table. This minus sign, located between the values for a and b, should not be
         erroneously misinterpreted as signifying a range of values.

(h) Data Limits {Upper and Lower):

         These are the data limits of the regression relationship as reported by Brown (1974).

(i) Exposure Temperature:

         This is the test temperature a fish is exposed to in the laboratory in order to determine the time
         to mortality.

(j) Resistance Time:

         This value is the amount of time that a sample of test fish were able to resist an exposure
         temperature before 50 percent mortality, or some other specified survival level, is experienced.
         The resistance time equation can be used to calculate thermal tolerance limits for a fish species
         for several time intervals up to 10,000 minutes (seven days) (Jinks et al 1981).

(Id Critical Thermal (Max):
         The upper boundary of the "zone of thermal resistance " is the critical thermal maximum (CTM)
          (Figure 1). The CTM is lethal if fish are allowed to remain at or above that temperature (Bonin et
          al 1981). The CTM is determined in the laboratory by gradually increasing the water tempera-

                                                                       4
RESPONSE TEMPERATURE
         ture from acclimation levels to the temperature at which the onset of spasms occurs, followed
          by complete loss of equilibrium. This differs from determination of the upper incipient lethal
         temperature (l(e)) in which fish are transferred directly and abruptly into a constant lethal
         temperature bath from acclimation temperatures (McCauley 1981). The rate of temperature
         increase used by any single investigator to determine CTM can vary within a range of 1 to 6O'C h
         for routine applications (Becker and Genoway 1979; Bonin et al 1981).

(I) Location:

         This is a laboratory. Sometimes its geographic location is given.

(2) PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:

This table contains temperature preference and avoidance values. These are derived from both field
and laboratory observations.

(a) Size or Age:

         Preferred and avoided temperatures vary with size and age, See Section 5.0 for a description of
         life stages and units of size used in the database.

(b) Season:

         Preferred and avoided temperatures vary with season. See Section 5.0 for abbreviations.

(c) Day or Night:

         Diurnal variation in temperature preference and avoidance is common (Coutant 1977a,
         Giattinna and Garton 1982). See Section 5.0 for abbreviations.

(d) Upper and Lower Avoidance:

         The avoidance threshold is defined as the temperature at which fish spend significantly less
         time in comparison to controls. Avoidance temperatures (upper and lower) can be measured
         directly in the lab by providing fish with a choice between water which is heated or cooled and
         water at the acclimation temperature of the fish (Giattinna and Garton 1982). The upper and
         lower avoidance temperatures define the boundary of the "zone of thermal preference" (Figure
         1). Avoidance temperatures reported from field studies are less precise than those of laboratory
         studies because they include the influence of other non-thermal environmental influences (i.e.,
         competition, predation, changes in water quality, food availability, physiological condition).

(e) Final Preferendum:

         Within a laboratory thermal gradient, over a short period of time (two hours or less) fish will
         gravitate toward certain temperatures. These are termed "acute thermal preferenda" (PT) and
         are highly dependent upon acclimation temperature (Cherry et al 1977; Giattinna and Garton
         1982) (Figure 1). The "final temperature preferendum" (FP) is the temperature around which
         fish will ultimately congregate in an infinite temperature gradient (Giattinna and Garton 1982)
         (Figure 1).

         The values for PT and FP are both entered in the column labelled Final Preferendum in the
         database. One can distinguish between the two values since PT are usually accompanied by
         values for Acclimation Temperatures in the seventh column of this table. Values cited from

                                                                                   6
          Coutant (1977a) are for FP only. Review of the data in Coutant (1977a) indicates values for FP
          vary within a narrow range of 4C. Estimates of FP from field studies whose ranges exceed 4C
          should be assumed to be PT for the given season and location. The manner in which tempera-
          ture preference data was typically reported in the literature did not allow explicit separation of
         values for PT and FP. Field reported values include much uncontrolled error due to the influence
         of other non-thermal environmental factors. Some of the reported values from field studies are
         representative of only a single point-in-time field occurrence. Users of the database are encour-
         aged to refer to the source literature for an indication of the reliability of the preferendum
         temperature.

(f) Acclimation Temperature:

         This term was previously defined for laboratory investigations (see item l(b) in the THERMAL
         TOLERANCES section). In field situations, fish are exposed to a whole set of conditions and are
         usually subjected to fluctuating rather than constant temperatures. Adaptation to all of these
         variables is known as acclimatization or sometimes field acclimation (McCauley 1981).

(g) Acclimation Time:

         This term was previously defined (see Item 1 (c) in the THERMAL TOLERANCES section).

(3) GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

This table contains data on thermal limits and optima for growth.

(a) Size or Age:

         Sizes and or ages are specified since younger, smaller fish grow faster than older, larger fish.
         See Section 5.0 for a description of the terms and units of size and age.

(b) Optimum:

        The optimal temperature for growth is the temperature at which growth rate is highest. This
         value is determined while fish are reared under conditions of maximum, or excess feeding and
         held at constant temperatures over the temperature range tolerated by the species (Jobling
         1981; McCauley and Casselman 1980). The difference between the final thermal preferendum
         and temperature for optimum growth is less than 2°C for some species (Kellogg and Gift 1983)
         (see Figure 1).

(c) Range:

         This value is the range of temperatures over which growth is known to occur.

(d) MWAT:

         The maximum weekly average temperature for growth (MWAT) is a measure of the upper
        temperature limit for long-term exposure. The MWAT lies somewhere between the physiologi-
         cal optimum temperature and the ultimate upper incipient lethal temperature (UUILT). The
         UUILT is the highest temperature to which the species can be acclimated; above this all
         temperatures are lethal regardless of previous thermal exposure (Jobling 1981) (Figure 1). The
         MWAT is calculated as one third of the range between the optimum temperature for growth and
         the UUILT (EPA 1974; Wrenn 1980).

(4 ST Max:

         These values are the maximum temperatures for short-term exposure (24 hours) during the

                                                                        7
growth season to prevent against lethal effects (Wrenn 1980). It is calculated as the difference
between the upper incipient lethal temperature, at an acclimation temperature equal to the
MWAT, minus 2°C (EPA 1974).

(f) No Growth Limits (Upper and Lower):

        These are estimates of the actual temperature end points, above or below which no growth is
         possible.

(4) SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES

This table contains information on temperature requirements for reproduction and larval develop-
ment. The table also has data on lethal temperatures that are not the conventional incipient lethals or
critical thermal maximas defined previously. This includes temperatures reported in the literature
from field observations of mortality or lethal values which were not derived from standard laboratory
techniques for estimating thermal dose. (These standard methods are described in McCauley (1981)).

(4 Event:

        This column contains a keyword(s) that describes the type of temperature requirement referred
        to in the corresponding row. These "events" are aspects of reproduction and larval develop-
         ment or thermal effects from power plant cooling water intakes or discharges. The event
        categoriesfound in thiscolumn include: life stage (egg, embryo, larval, juvenile, adult); mode of
         reproductive behaviour (migration, spawning, incubation, hatching, embryo or larval develop-
         ment); and type of power plant effect (entrainment, heat or cold shock). The three types of
         power plant effects included above are defined as follows:

entrainment:  The passage of icthyoplankton (eggs, larvae, small juveniles) through the
              screens of cooling water intakes into the condenser cooling system of a power
              plant; subject to mechanical, chemical and thermal stresses. (Temperature
              requirements are derived from laboratory simulation studies; laboratory ther-
              mal tolerance work and in situ studies of fish survival at operating power plants
              (Jinks et al 1981).

heat shock: Fish resident in a power plant thermal discharge are subject to a rapid increase
                      in temperature due to changes in power plant operations.

cold shock:   Fish resident in warm water discharges are exposed to a rapid decrease in
              temperature and a sustained exposure to low temperature that induces re-
              sponses of abnormal behaviour and physiological function often leading to
              death (Coutant 1977b). Cold shock events occur usually in colder months due to
              planned or accidental shutdowns.

(b) Season and/or Acclimation Temperature:

         Numerical values in this column are acclimation temperatures in degrees Celsius. The letter
         symbols in this column representing the four seasons are defined in Section 5.0.

(c) Optimum Temperature:

The temperature of peak occurrence, or most frequently associated with the given event.

(4 Temperature Range:
         The range of temperatures over which the given event is reported to occur.

                          8
 (e) MWAT:

          The maximum weekly average temperature during the month of peak spawning. This should
           not exceed the optimum temperature for spawning or, if such data are not available, the
          middle of the reported range of temperatures for spawning (EPA 1974; Wrenn 1984).

 0) ST Max for Embryo Survival:

          The short-term (24-hour) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival from experi-
          mental data, or if not available, the reported maximum temperature for spawning (EPA 1974;
          Wrenn 1984).

 (9) Acclimation Time:
          See item 1 (c) in THERMAL TOLERANCE section for definition.

 (h) Lethal Limit (Upper and Lower):

          These are any lethal temperatures observed in the field or from laboratory experiments that do
          not conform to the prescribed methods for determining lethal temperatures as set out in Fry
          (1946) and McCauley (1981).

(i) Median Lethal AT:

         This value represents the increase from a base temperature required to kill larval fish during
         entrainment. This lethal value is usually much higherthan a conventional upper incipient lethal
         temperature since the time of exposure to the lethal AT in a condenser is very brief allowing for
         no gradual acclimation (Moore 1979).

         A median lethal AT for heat shock or cold shock events represents the change in temperature
         above a given acclimation level that causes abnormal behavioura! or physiological responses.
         The numerical value for the median lethal AT is preceded by a plus (+) or minus (-) sign in the
         table to indicate whether it pertains to heat shock (+) or cold shock (-).

(j) Median Lethal Final:

         This is the ultimate lethal temperature value experienced by entrained fish (ambient or base
         temperature + IT) Moore (1979).

3.0 DATABASE SUMMARY

3.1 Organization

A summary of the species list and general categories of temperature data recorded for each species
is given in Table 1. The species are listed by family, scientific name and common name. The species
grouping is phylogenetic as is conventional in fisheries surveys (Christie 1982; Scott and Crossman
1973; Jobling 1981; Houston 1982). An alphabetical listing of the reviewed fish species by common
name is provided in Table 2.

The bulk of the report consists of the fish temperature database tables arranged in taxonomic order
by family. The species within families are in alphabetical order, according to their scientific name.
Temperature data tables for each species appear in the following order: thermal tolerances; pre-
ferred temperatures; growth temperatures; spawning and development temperatures.

                                                                  9
3.2 Content
The species frequency distribution for the four temperature data tables is summarized in Table 1.
Evaluation of the availability of this data with respect to both these four temperature categories and
fish species highlights the fact that large gaps in the available data presently exist. Complete tem-
perature data, in all four major categories, was available for only 45 species. Of the remaining 71
species, only 17 were represented by data in three categories, 24 species represented in two catego-
ries and 23 species in only one category. In the database, a total of 45 commercial/game fish species
were listed. Of these, 84 percent were represented in at least three of the four major tables of
temperature data. This contrasts sharply with the situation for forage/coarse fish species where only
41 percent of a total of 71 species were represented in the database by at least three major data
tables. Spotila et al (1979) noted the lack of temperature data on forage or coarse fish species such
as darters (Etheostomidae), minnows (Cyprinidae), and suckers (Castostomidae), which are among
the most thermally sensitive species. The temperature requirements of salmons and trouts (Salmonidae);
basses and sunfishes (Centrarchidae) are the most completely represented.
The database was also reviewed in relation to the relative frequency of occurrence of each of the
four major types of temperature data (i.e. tolerances, preferred, growth, spawning and develop-
ment). The category with the poorest (least) representation was GROWTH TEMPERATURES. This
was not surprising in view of the fact that experimental determinations of temperature requirements
for growth are more difficult and costly than those for survival, preference and reproduction (McCauley
and Casselman 1980; Jobling 1981; Kellogg and Gift 1983). The paucity of growth data is unfortunate
since changes in growth rate provide one of the few long-term indicators of species response to
thermal effects (Kellogg and Gift 1983). Growth may be considered as an integrator of the mix of
stresses affecting the metabolism of fish and, as such, a more sensitive index of environmental
effects than mortality (Rodgers and Griffiths 1983). Recent contributions to the scientific literature
have shown that growth criteria may be approximated from temperature preferenda and lethal
temperatures (McCauley and Casselman 1980; Jobling 1981; Kellogg and Gift 1983).

                                                                          10
Table 1. Great Lakes Fish Species and Types of Temperature Data.
             Blank Space Means No Data Available.
             Scientific and Common Names from Scott and Crossman (1973).

                                                            Type of Temperature Data

Family                 Species         Common Name       Thermal 1           Growth3  Spawning
                                                           Toler-                         and4
                                                           ances Preferred'
                                                                                      Develop-

                                                                                         ment

Petromyzontidae Petromyzon marinus     sea lamprey       X                X  X        X
 (Lampreys)

Acipenseridae  Acipenser fulvescens    lake sturgeon                                  X

(Sturgeons)

Lepisosteidae  Lepisosteus oculatus    spotted gar*                       X
 (Gars)        Lepisosteus osseus      longnose gar
                                                                          X  X

Amiidae        Amia calva              bowfin            X                X           X

(Bowfin)

Clupeidae      Alosa pseudoharengus    alewife           X                X  X        X
 (Herrings)    Dorosoma cepedianum     gizzard shad
                                                         X                X  X        X

Salmonidae     Oncorhynchus gorbuscha pink salmon        X                X  X        X

(Salmons, trouts Oncorhynchus kisutch  coho salmon       X                X  X        X

whitefishes)   Oncorhynchus nerka      kokanee salmon    X                X  X        X

               Oncorhynchus

               tshawytscha             chinook salmon    X                X  X        X

               Salmo trutta            brown trout       X                X  X        X

               Salmo gairdneri         rainbow trout     X                X  X        X

               Salvelinus fontinalis   brook trout       X                X  x        X

               Salvelinus namaycush    lake trout        X                X  X        X

               Salvelinus fontinalis

               x S. namaycush          splake            X                X           X

               Coregonus alpenae       longjaw cisco

               Coregonus artedii       cisco,

                                       lake herring      X                X  X        X

               Coregonus hoyi          bloater*          X                X           X

               Coregonus kiyi          kiyi*                              X           X

               Coregonus reighardi     shortnose cisco*                               X

               Coregonus zenithicus    shortjaw cisco

               Coregonus clupea

               formis                  lake whitefish    X                X  X        X

               Prosopium coulteri      pygmy whitefish*

               Prosopium cylindraceum round whitefish                     X           X

Osmeridae      Osmerus mordax          rainbow smelt     X                X  X        X
 (Smelts)

Hiodontidae    Hiodon tergisus         mooneye                            X           X
 (Mooneyes)

                                       11
Table 1. - Continued                                        Type of Temperature Data

Family                   Species      Common Name        Thermal 1           Growth3  Spawning
                                                           Toler-                         and4
                                                           ances Preferred'
                                                                                      Develop-

                                                                                         ment

Umbridae      Umbra limi              central mud

(Mudminnows)                          minnow             X                            X

Esocidae      Esox americanus         grass pickerel*                                 X

(Pikes)               vermiculatus

              Esox lucius             northern pike      X                            X

              Esox masquinongy        muskellunge        X                            X

Cyprinidae    Campostoma anomalum stoneroller*           X                            X

(Minnows)     Chrosomus eos           northern redbelly

                                      dace               X                            X

              Chrosomus neogaeus      finescale dace     X                            X

              Couesius plumbeus       lake chub                                       X

              Cyprinus carpio         carp               X                            X

              Exoglossum maxillingua cutlips minnow                                   X

              Hybognathus hankinsoni brassy minnow                                    X

              Hybognathus nuchalis    silvery minnow                                  X

              Hybopsis storeriana     silver chub                                     X

              Nocomis biguttatus      hornyhead chub                                  X

              Nocomis micropogon      river chub         X                            X

              Notemigonus

                      crysoleucas     golden shiner      X                            X

              Notropis anogenus       pugnose shiner*       ::

              Notropis atherinoides   emerald shiner     X  X                X        X

              Notropis bifrenatus     bridle shiner                                   X

              Notropis cornutus       common shiner      X                            X

              Notropis heterodon      blackchin shiner   X

              Notropis heterolepis    blacknose shiner

              Notropis hudsonius      spottail shiner    X  X                X        X

              Notropis rubellus       rosyface shiner    X  X                X        X

              Notropis spilopterus    spotfin shiner     X  X                X        X

              Notropis stramineus     sand shiner        X

              Notropis umbratilis     redfin shiner

              Notropis volucellus     mimic shiner

              Pimephales notatus      bluntnose minnow X    X                X        X

              Pimephales promelas     fathead minnow     X  X                X        X

              Rhinichthys atratulus   blacknose dace     X                            X

              Rhinichthys cataractae  longnose dace      X  X                X        X

              Semotilus

                      atromaculatus   creek chub         X                            X

              Semotilus corporalis    fall fish             X                         X

              Semotilus margarita     pearl dace                                      X

              Carassius auratus       gold fish          X  X                X        X

Castostomidae Carpoides cyprinus      quillback          X  X                         X

(Suckers)     Catostomus catostomus longnose suckers     X  X                         X

              Catostomus commersoni white sucker         X  X                X        X

              Erimyzon sucetta        lake chubsucker*                                X

              Hypentelium nigricans   northern hog

                                      sucker             X  X                X        X

                                      12
Table 1. - Continued

                                                               Type of Temperature Data

Family                       Species     Common Name        Thermal 1                        Spawning
                                                              Toler-                             and4
                                                              ances Preferred'
                                                                                              Develop-
                                                                                Growth3 ment

Castostomidae Ictiobus cyprinellus       bigmouth buffalo*     X                         X

(Suckers)         Minytrema melanops     spotted sucker*    X  X                         X

                  Moxostoma anisurum     silver redhorse                                 X

                  Moxostoma              shorthead red

                      macrolepidotum     horse                 X                         X

Ictaluridae       Ictalurus melas        black bullhead     X  X                         X

(Catfishes)       Ictalurus natalis      yellow bullhead    X  X

                  Ictalurus nebulosus    brown bullhead     X  X                         x

                  Ictalurus punctatus    channel catfish    X  X                         X

                  Noturus flavus         stonecat           X  X                         X

                  Noturus gyrinus        tadpole madtom     X

                  Noturus miurus         brindled madtom*                                X

Auguillidae       Anguilla rostrata      american eel          X                         X
 (Eels)

Cyprinodontidae Fundulus diaphanus       banded killifish   X  X                         X

(Killifishes)

Gadidae           Lota lota              burbot             X  X                         X

(Cods)

Atherinidae       Labiddesthes sicculus  brook silverside      X

(Silversides)

Gasterosteidae Culaea inconstans         brook stickleback  X                            X

(Sticklebacks)    Gasterosteus aculeatus threespine

                                         stickleback        X  X                X        X

                  Pungitius pungitius    Ninespine

                                         stickleback           X                         X

Percopsidae       Percopsis omiscomaycus trout-perch        X  X                X        X
 (Trout-perches)

Percichthyidae    Morone americana       white perch        X  X                X        X
 (Temperate       Morone chrysops        white bass
 Basses)                                                    X  X                X        X

Centrarchidae     Ambloplites rupestris  rock bass          X  X                X        X

(Sunfishes)       Lepomis cyanellus      green sunfish*     X  X                X        X

                  Lepomis gibbosus       pumpkinseed        X  X                X        X

                  Lepomis macrochirus    bluegill           X  X                X        X

                  Lepomis megalotis      longear sunfish*   X  X                         X

                  Micropterus dolomieui  smallmouth bass    X  X                X        X

                  Micropterus salmoides  largemouth bass    X  X                X        X

                  Pomoxis annularis      white crappie      X  X                X        X

                  Pomoxis nigromaculatus black crappie      X  X                X        X

                                         13
Table 1. - Continued

                                                          Type of Temperature Data

Family                Species       Common Name        Thermal 1                        Spawning
                                                         Toler-
                                                         ances Preferred'                   and'

                                                                                         Develop
                                                                           Growth3 ment

Percidae    Perca flavescens        yellow perch       X  X                X        X
 (Perches)  Stizostedion canadense  sauger
            Stizostedion vitreum    walleye            X  X                X        X

                                                       X  X                X        X

            Ammocrypta pellucida    eastern sand

                                    darter*               x

            Etheostoma blennoides greenside darter     X

            Etheostoma caerulum     rainbow darter     X  X

            Etheostoma exile        Iowa darter           X

            Etheostoma flabellare   fantail darter     X

            Etheostoma microperca least darter*

            Etheostoma nigrum       johnny darter      X  X

            Percina caprodes        log perch             X

            Percina copelandi       channel darter*

            Percina maculata        blackside darter

Sciaenidae  Aplodinotus grunniens freshwater drum      X  X                X        X

(Drums)

Cottidae    Cottus bairdi           mottled sculpin    X  X                         X

(Sculpins)  Cottus cognatus         slimy sculpin      X  X                         X

            Cottus ricei            Spoonhead sculpin                               X

            Myoxocephalus           deepwater sculpin     X                         X

                      quadricornis

* listed as rare or threatened species by McAllister et al (1985).

1. Includes: upper and lower incipient lethal; thermal resistance equations and times; critical thermal maximum.

2. Includes: final preferendum; upper and lower avoidance temperatures; preferred temperatures.

3. Includes: growth optimum and range; upper and lower thermal limits for growth: maximum weekly average
    temperature for growth over long term; maximum temperature for non-lethal, short-term exposure.

4. Includes: temperature optimum and range for spawning: maximum weekly average for spawning; embryo
    survival temperature; larval entrainment temperatures and survival levels; impingement temperatures; heat
    and cold shock temperatures.

                                    14
Common Name                                TABLE 2      Family Name

Alewife              ALPHABETICAL LISTlNG OF REVIEWED   Clupeidae
American Eel            FISH SPECIES BY COMMON NAME     Anguillidae
Banded Killifish                                        Cyprinodontidae
Bigmouth Buffalo             Scientific Name            Castostomidae
Black Bullhead                                          Ictaluridae
Black Crappie                Alosa pseudoharengus       Centrarchidae
Blackchin Shiner             Anguilla rostrata          Cyprinidae
Blacknose Dace               Fundulus diaphanus         Cyprinidae
Blackside Darter             Ictiobus cyprinellus       Percidae
Bloater                      Ictalurus melas            Salmonidae
Bluegill                     Pomoxis nigromaculatus     Centrarchidae
Bluntnose Minnow             Notropis heterodon         Cyprinidae
Bowfin                       Rhinichthys atratulus      Amiidae
Brassy Minnow                Percina maculata           Cyprinidae
Bridle Shiner               Coregonus hoyi              Cyprinidae
Brindled Madtom              Lepomis macrochirus        Ictaluridae
Brook Silverside             Pimephales notatus         Atherinidae
Brook Stickleback           Amia calva                  Gasterosteidae
Brook Trout                  Hybognathus hankinsoni     Salmonidae
Brown Bullhead               Notropis bifrenatus        Ictaluridae
Brown Trout                  Noturus miurus             Salmonidae
Burbot                      Labbiddesthes sicculus      Gadidae
Carp                        Culaea inconstans           Cyprinidae
Central Mudminnow           Salvelinus fontinalis       Umbridae
Channel Cat                 Ictalurus nebulosus         Ictaluridae
Channel Darter              Salmo trutta                Percidae
Chinook Salmon              Lota lota                   Salmonidae
Cisco, Lake Herring         Cyprinus carpio             Salmonidae
Coho Salmon                 Umbra limi                  Salmonidae
Common Shiner               Ictalurus punctatus         Cyprinidae
Creek Chub                  Percina copelandi           Cyprinidae
Cutlips Minnow              Oncorhynchus tshawytscha    Cyprinidae
Deepwater Sculpin           Coregonus artedii           Cottidae
Eastern Sand Darter         Oncorhynchus kisutch        Percidae
Emerald Shiner              Notropis cornutus           Cyprinidae
Fall Fish                   Semotilus atromaculatus     Cyprinidae
Fantail Darter              Exoglossum maxillingua      Percidae
Fathead Minnow              Myoxocephalus quadricornis  Cyprinidae
Finescale Dace              Ammocrypta pellucida        Cyprinidae
Freshwater Drum             Notropis atherinoides       Sciaenidae
Gizzard Shad                Semotilus corporalis        Clupeidae
Golden Shiner               Etheostoma flabellare       Cyprinidae
                            Pimephales promelas
                            Chrosomus neogaeus
                            Aplodinotus grunniens
                            Dorosoma cepedianum
                            Notemigonus crysoleucas

                                           15
TABLE 2 - Continued

Common Name                   Scientific Name               Family Name

Goldfish                      Carassius auratus             Cyprinidae
Grass Pickerel                Esox americanus vermiculatus  Esocidae
Green Sunfish                 Lepomis cyanellus             Centrarchidae
Greenside Darter              Etheostoma blennoides         Percidae
Hornyhead Chub                Nocomis biguttatus            Cyprinidae
Iowa Darter                   Etheostoma exile              Percidae
Johnny Darter                 Etheostoma nigrum             Percidae
Kiyi                          Coregonus kiyi                Salmonidae
Kokanee Salmon                Oncorhynchus nerka            Salmonidae
Lake Chub                     Couesius plumbeus             Cyprinidae
Lake Chubsucker               Erimyzon sucetta              Castostomidae
Lake Herring, Cisco           Coregonus artedii             Salmonidae
Lake Sturgeon                 Acipenser fulvescens          Acipenseridae
Lake Trout                    Salvelinus namaycush          Salmonidae
Lake Whitefish                Coregonus clupeaformis        Salmonidae
Lamprey, Sea                  Petromyzon marinus            Petromyzontidae
Largemouth Bass               Micropterus salmoides         Centrarchidae
Least Darter                  Etheostoma microperca         Percidae
Log Perch -                   Percina caprodes              Percidae
Longear Sunfish               Lepomis megalotis             Centrarchidae
Longnose Dace                 Rhinichthys cataractae        Cyprinidae
longnose Gar                  Lepisosteus osseus            Lepisosteidae
Longnose Sucker               Catostomus catostomus
Mooneye                       Hiodon tergisus               Castostomidae
Mottled Sculpin               Cottus bairdi
Muskellunge                   Esox masquinongy              Hiodontidae
Ninespine Stickleback         Pungitius pungitius           Cottidae
Northern Hogsucker            Hypentelium nigricans
Northern Pike                 Esox lucius                   Esocidae
Northern Redbelly dace        Chrosomus eos                 Gasterosteidae
Pearl Dace                    Semotilus margarita           Castostomidae
Pink Salmon                   Oncorhynchus gorbuscha        Esocidae
Pugnose Shiner                Notropis anogenus             Cyprinidae
Pumpkinseed                   Lepomis gibbosus              Cyprinidae
Quillback                     Carpoides cyprinus            Salmonidae
Rainbow Darter                Etheostoma caerulum           Cyprinidae
Rainbow Smelt                 Osmerus mordax                Centrarchidae
Rainbow Trout                 Salmo gairdneri               Cyprinidae
River Chub                    Nocomis micropogon            Percidae
Rock Bass                     Ambloplites rupestris         Osmeridae
Rosyface Shiner               Notropis rubellus             Salmonidae
Round Whitefish               Prosopium cylindraceum        Cyprinidae
Sand Shiner                   Notropis stramineus           Centrarchidae
Sauger                        Stizostedion canadense        Cyprinidae
Sea Lamprey                   Petromyzon marinus            Salmonidae
Sheepshead (Freshwater Drum)  Aplodinotus grunniens         Cyprinidae
                                                            Percidae
                                                            Petromyzontidae
                                                            Sciaenidae

                              16
TABLE 2 - Continued        Scientific Name                       Family Name

Common Name                Moxostoma macrolepidotum              Castostomidae
                           Hybopsis storeriana                   Cyprinidae
Shorthead Redhorse         Moxostoma anisurum                    Castostomidae
Silver Chub                Hybognathus nuchalis                  Cyprinidae
Silver Redhorse            Cottus cognatus                       Cottidae
Silvery Minnow             Micropterus dolomieui                 Centrarchidae
Slimy Sculpin              Cottus ricei                          Cottidae
Smallmouth Bass            Salvelinus fontinalis x S. namaycush  Salmonidae
Spoonhead Sculpin          Notropis spilopterus                  Cyprinidae
Splake                     Notropis hudsonius                    Cyprinidae
Spotfin Shiner             Lepisosteus oculatus                  Lepistosteidae
Spottail Shiner            Minytrema melanops                    Castostomidae
Spotted Gar                Noturus flavus                        Ictaluridae
Spotted Sucker             Campostoma anomalum                   Cyprinidae
Stonecat                   Noturus gyrinus                       Ictaluridae
Stoneroller                Gasterosteus aculeatus                Gasterosteridae
Tadpole Madtom             Percopsis omiscomaycus                Percopsidae
Threespine Stickleback     Stizostedion vitreum                  Percidae
Trout-perch                Morone chrysops                       Percichthyidae
Walleye                    Pomoxis annularis                     Centrarchidae
White Bass                 Morone americana                      Percichthyidae
White Crappie              Catostomus commersoni                 Castostomidae
White Perch                Ictalurus natalis                     Ictaluridae
White Sucker               Perca flavescens                      Percidae
Yellow Bullhead            Stizostedion vitreum                  Percidae
Yellow Perch
Yellow Pickerel (Walleye)

                           17
4.0 REFERENCES

Adams, S.M., R.B. McLean and M.M. Huffman. 1982. Structuring of a Predator Population Through
Temperature-Mediated Effects on Prey Availability. Can. J. Fish. Aquat. Sci 39:1175-1184

Adelman, I.R. 1980. Uptake of 14C-Glycine by Scales as an Index of Fish Growth: Effect of Fish
Acclimation Temperature. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 109:187-194.

Argyle, R.L. 1982. Alewives and Rainbow Smelt in Lake Huron: Midwater and Bottom Aggregations
and Estimates of Standing Stocks. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 111:267-285.

Balon, E.K. 1984. Reflections on Some Decisive Events in the Early Life of Fishes. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc.
113:178-185.

Bartnik, V.C. 1970. Reproductive Isolation Between Two Sympatric Dace, Rhinichthys atratulus and R.
cataractae in Manitoba. J. Fish. Res. Board Can 27:2125-2141.

Becker, C.D. and R.G. Genoway. 1979. Evaluation of the CTM for Determining Thermal Tolerance of
Freshwater Fish. Env. Biol. of Fishes 4:245-256.

Beitinger, T.L. 1976. Behavioural Thermoregulation by Bluegill Exposed to Various Rates of Tempera-
ture Change p176-179. In G.W. Esch and R.W. McFarlane [ed]. Thermal Ecology II. Natl. Tech. Inf.
Serv., Springfield, Va. 404p.

Beitinger, T.L. and J.J. Magnuson 1979. Growth Rates and Temperature Selection of Bluegill,
(Lepomis macrochirus). Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 108:378-382.

Beltz, J.R., J.E. Johnson, D.L. Cohen and F.B. Pratt. 1974. An annotated Bibliography of the Effects of
Temperature on Fish with Special Reference to the Freshwater and Andromous Species of New
England. Research Bulletin No. 605. July 1974. Massachusetts Agr. Expt. Station, Univ. of Massachu-
setts, Amherst. 97p.

Bonin, J.D. and J.R. Spotila 1978. Temperature Tolerance of Larval Muskellunge (Esox masquinongy
Mitchell) and F, Hybrids Reared Under Hatchery Conditions. Comp. Biochem. Physiol. 59A:245-248.

Bonin, J.D., R.M. Lee and J.N. Rinne. 1981. Measuring Thermal Limits of Fish. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc.
110:662-664.

Brandt, S.B., J.J. Magnuson, and L.B. Crowder. 1980a. Thermal Habitat Partitioning by Fishes in Lake
Michigan. Can. J. Fish. Aquat. Sci. 37: 1557-l 564.

Brandt, S.B. 1980b. Spatial Segregation of Adult and Young-of-the-Year alewives across a thermo-
cline in Lake Michigan. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 190: 469-478.

Brazo, D.C. C.R. Liston and R.C. Anderson. 1978. Life History of the Longnose Dace, Rhinichthys
cataractae in the surge zone of eastern Lake Michigan near Ludington, Michigan. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc.
107:550-556.

Brown, H.W. 1974. Handbook of the Effects of Temperature on Some North American Fishes. Ameri-
can Electric Power Service Corp., Canton, Ohio. 524 p and App (12).

                                                           18
 Brown, J.H., U.T. Hammer and G.D. Koshinosky. 1970. Breeding Biology of the Lake Chub, Couesius
plumbeus, at Lac La Ronge, Saskatchewan. J. Fish. Res. Board Can. 27:1005-1015.

Buynak, G.L. and H. W. Mohr, Jr. 1978. Larval Development of the Northern Hog Sucker (Hypentelium
nigricans), from the Susquehanna River. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 107:595-599.

Buynak, G.L. and H.W. Mohr, Jr. 1979. Larval Development of the Shorthead Redhorse (Moxostoma
macrolepidotum) from the Susquehanna River. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 108: 161-I 65.

Cada, G.F. and G.L. Hergenrader, 1980. Natural Mortality Rates of Freshwater Drum Larvae in the
Missouri River. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 109:479-483.

Cada, G.F., J.S. Sufferin, K.D. Kumar and J.A. Soloman. 1981. Investigations of Entrainment Mortality
Among Larval and Juvenile Fishes Using a Power Plant Simulator pp 111-122. In L.D. Jensen [ed]
Issues Associated with Impact Assessment. Proceedings 5th National Workshop on Entrainment and
Impingement. May 5-7, 1980, San Francisco. Ecological Analysts Inc. and Electric Power Research Inst.
MD 307p.

Carey, W.E. 1982. Pickering Round Whitefish Studies Field Component, 1981-82. Ontario Hydro
Research Division Report No. 82-539-K.15p.

Carey, W.E. 1984. Pickering NGS B Interim Aquatic Study, 1983. Ontario Hydro Research Division
Report No. 84-341-K.29p.

Carlander, K.E. 1969. Handbook of Freshwater Fishery Biology. Volume One. 3rd edition. Iowa State
University Press, Ames, Iowa 752 p.

Carlander, K.E. 1977. Handbook of Freshwater Fishery Biology. Volume Two. Iowa State University
Press, Ames, Iowa 431 p.

Carlson, A.R. and L.J. Herman. 1978. Effect of Long-Term Reduction and Diet Fluctuation in Dissolved
Oxygen on Spawning of Black Crappie, Pomoxis nigromaculatus. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 107:742-746.

Carmichael, G.J. 1983. Scale-number Differences of Central Stonerollers Incubated and Reared at
Different Temperatures. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 112:441-444.

Casselman, J.M. 1978. Effects of Environmental Factors on Growth, Survival, Activity, and Exploita-
tion of Northern Pike. Am. Fish. Soc. Spec. Publ. 11:114-128.

Cherry, D.S., K.L. Dickson, J. Cairns Jr., and J. R. Stauffer, 1977. Preferred, Avoided and Lethal
Temperatures of Fish During Rising Temperature Conditions. J. Fish. Res. Board. Can. 34:239-246.

Cherry, D.S., S.R. Larrick, J.D. Giattina, J. Cairns Jr., and J. Van Hassel. 1982. Influence of Temperature
Selection Upon the Chlorine Avoidance of Cold-Water and Warm-Water Fishes. Can. J. Fish. Aquat.
Sci. 39:162-173.

Cheshire, W.F. and K.L. Steel 1972. Hatchery Rearing of Walleye Using Artificial Food. Prog. Fish. Cult.
34(2): 96-99.

Christie, A.E. 1982. Fish Species of Ontario -A Summary of Some Characteristics and Their Validity to
Predict Presence at a Given Site. Ontario Hydro Design and Development Division Report No. 82287.
May 1982.37p.

                                                                 19
Clugston, J.P., J.L. Oliver, and R. Ruelle 1978. Reproduction, Growth, and Standing Crops of Yellow
Perch in Southern Reservoirs. Am. Fish. Soc. Spec. Publ. 11:89-99.

Corbett, B. and P.M. Powler 1983. Spawning and Early-Life Ecological Phases of the White Sucker in
Jack Lake, Ontario. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 112:308-313.

Coutant, C.C. 1977a. Compilation of Temperature Preference Data. J. Fish. Res. Board Can. 34:739-745

Coutant, C.C. 1977b. Cold Shock to Aquatic Organisms: Guidance for Power Plant Siting, Design, and
Operation. Nuclear Safety 18(3):329-342.

Coutant, C.C. and D.L. DeAngelis. 1983. Comparative Temperature-Dependent Growth Rates of
Largemouth and Smallmouth Bass Fry. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 112:416-423.

Coutant, C.C., D.K. Cox, K.W. Moored, Jr. 1976. Further Studies of Cold Shock Effects on Susceptibility
of Young Channel Catfish to Predation. pp 154-158. In G.W. Esch and R.W. McFarlane [eds]. Thermal
Ecology II. Natl. Tech. Inf. Serv., Springfield, Va 404p.

Cravens, J.B. 1981. Thermal Effects. J. Water Pollution Control Federation 53(6): 949-965.

Cravens, J.B. 1982. Thermal Effects. J. Water Poll. Control Fed. 54(6):812-829.

Cravens, J.B., M.E. Harrelson and S.S. Talmage. 1983. Thermal Effects. Journal Water Pollution
Control Federation 55(6): 787-800.

Crippen, R.W. and F.K. Fahmy 1981. Biological Effects of Once-Through Cooling Systems on Entrained
Planktonic Organisms. pp E-l to E-77 In A.E. Christie [ed] Biological Investigations to Improve
Once-Through Cooling System Designs for the Great Lakes. Report No. 81481. Environmental Studies
and Assessments Department, Design and Development Division, Ontario Hydro, December 1981,
Toronto, Ontario.

Crowder, L.B. and H.L. Crawford. 1984. Ecological Shifts in Resource Use by Bloaters in Lake Michi-
gan. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 113:694-700.

Crowder, L.B., J.J. Magnuson and S.B. Brandt 1981. Complementarity in the Use of Food and Thermal
Habitat by Lake Michigan Fishes. Can. J. Fish. Aquat. Sci. 38:662-668.

de Montalembert, G., C. Bry and R. Billard. 1978. Control of Reproduction in Northern Pike. Am. Fish.
Soc. Spec. Publ. 11:217-225.

Dodson, J.J. and J.C. Young. 1977. Temperature and Photoperiod Regulation of Rheotropic
Behaviour in Prespawning Shiners, Notropis cornutus. J. Fish. Res. Board Can. 34:341-346.

Dunford, W.E. 1978. Field Fish Spawning Study Lennox GS 1976. Ontario Hydro Research Division
Report No. 78-28-K 26p.

Dunford, W.E. 1980. Whitefish Spawning Study Darlington GS-1977 Final Report. Ontario Hydro
Research Division Report No. 80-371-K.

                                                                     20
Dunstall. T.G. 1978. Response of Larval Lake Whitefish (Coregonus clupeaformis) to Thermal Simula-
tion of Once-Through Cooling Regimes. Ontario Hydro Research Division Report No. 78-564-K 23p.

Dunstall, T. 1979. Response of Yellow Perch (Perca flavescens) Larvae to Thermal Simulation of
Once-Through Cooling Regimes. Ontario Hydro Research Division Report No. 79-477-K.

Edsall, T.A. and T.G. Yocom. 1972. Review of recent technical information concerning the adverse
effects of once-through cooling on Lake Michigan. Prepared for L. Mich Enforcement Conference Sept
19-21, 1972, Chicago, III. by G.L. Fishery Laboratory, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Ellis, C.J. 1984 Predicted Survival of Selected Fish Species Released Via Fish Pump to Untempered
Discharge Water at Nanticocke TGS. Report No: 84355. Env. Studies &Assessments Department 44p
and App.

Ellison, D.G. 1984. Trophic Dynamics of a Nebraska Black Crappie and White Crappie Population.
North Am. J. Fish. Manage. 4:355-364.

EPA 1974. 316(a) Technical Guidance - Thermal Discharges. Draft. September 30, 1974. Water Plan-
ning Division, Office of Water and Hazardous Materials, Env. Prot. Agency 187p

EPA 1976. Yellow Perch Select Unnaturally High Temperatures in Laboratory Gradient Tanks p 14. In
Quarterly Report of the. Environmental Research Laboratory - Duluth, Minn. January - March 1976.
U.S. EPA. Office of Research and Development. 16p.

EPA 1978a. Temperature Determines Species Population Structure and Composition. pp 4-6 ln
Quarterly Report Oct-Dee 1978 U.S. EPA Environmental Research Lab, Duluth Mn. 20p.

EPA 1978b. Day Length and Season Alter Growth Patterns of White Suckers pp 10-11 ln Quarterly
Report Jan-Mar 1978. U.S. EPA Environmental Research Lab - Duluth, Mn 16p.

Evans, D.O. 1977. Seasonal Changes in Standard Metabolism, Upper and Lower Thermal Tolerance
and Thermoregulatory Behaviour of the Pumpkinseed, Lepomis gibbosus, Linnaeus, Doctoral disser-
tation. Dept. Zoology, Univ. Toronto, Toronto, 429p.

Farmer, G.J., F.W.H. Beamish and F.L. Lett 1977. Influence of Water Temperature on the Growth Rate
of the Landlocked Sea Lamprey (Petromyzon marinus) and the associated rate of host mortality. J.
Fish. Res. Board Can. 34: 1373-1378.

Fitz, R.B. and J.A. Holbrook Il. 1978. Sauger and Walleye in Norris Reservoir, Tennessee. Am. Fish.
Soc. Spec. Publ. 11:82-88.

Floyd, K.B., R.D. Hoyt, and S. Timbrook, 1984. Chronology of Appearance and Habitat Partitioning by
Stream Larval Fishes. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 113:217-223.

Fry, F.E.J., J.S. Hart and K.F. Walker. 1946. Lethal Temperature Relations for a Sample Young
Speckled Trout, Salvelinus fontinalis. Pbl. Ont. Fish. Res. Lab. No. 66; Univ. of Toronto Stud, Biol. Ser.
No. 54, Univ. of Toronto Press.

Fuiman, L.A. 1979. Descriptions and Comparisons of Catastomid Fish Larvae: Northern Atlantic
Drainage Species. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 108:560-603.

                                                                    21
Fuiman, L.A. and D.C. Witman 1979. Descriptions and comparisons of catostomid fish larvae:
Catostomus Catostomus and Moxostoma erythrurum. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 108:604-619.

Gale, W.F. 1983. Fecundity and Spawning Frequency of Caged Bluntnose Minnows - Fractional
Spawners. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc, 112:398-402.

Gale, W.F. and G.L. Buynak 1982. Fecundity and Spawning Frequency of the Fathead Minnow - A
Fractional Spawner. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 111:35-40.

Gee, J.H. and K. Machniak 1972. Ecological Notes on a Lake-Dwelling Population of Longnose Dace
(Rhinichthys cataractae) J. Fish. Res. Board Can. 29:330-332.

Giattinna, J.D. and R.R. Garton. 1982. Graphical Model of Thermoregulatory Behaviour by Fishes with
a New Measure of Eurythermality. Can. J. Fish. Aquat. Sci. 39:524-528.

Gift, J.J. 1977. Application of Temperature Preference Studies to Environmental Impact Assessment.
J. Fish. Res. Board. Can. 34:746-749.

Gowans, W.L. 1982. Pickering Nuclear Generating Station Winter Thermal Plume Study (1979-1980)
Round Whitefish Egg Incubation Simulations. Ontario Hydro Design and Development Report NO.
81263, January 1982.41 p and App.

Griffiths, J.S. 1978. Effects of Low Temperature in the Survival and Behaviour of Threadfin Shad,
Dorosoma petenense. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 107:63-70.

Griffiths, J.S. 1978. Potential Effects of Unstable Thermal Discharge Plumes on Yellow Perch Eggs.
Ontario Hydro Research Division Report No. 78-586-K.

Griffiths, J. S. 1978. Potential Effects of Unstable Thermal Discharge Plumes on Great Lakes Rainbow
Smelt Eggs. Ontario Hydro Research Division Report No. 78-343-K 58p.

Griffiths, J.S. 1978. Fish Growth at Great Lakes Generating Station Sites. Ontario Hydro Research
Division Report No. 78-52-K.
Griffiths, J.S. 1979. Potential Effects of Unstable Thermal Discharges on Incubation of Lake Whitefish
Eggs. Ontario Hydro Research Division Report No. 79-521-K.

Griffiths, J.S. 1980. Potential Effects of Unstable Thermal Discharges on Incubation of Round
Whitefish Eggs. Ontario Hydro Research Division Report No. 80-140-K.
Griffiths, J.S. 1981. Potential Effects of Fluctuating Thermal Regimes on Incubation of Walleye Eggs.
Ontario Hydro Research Division Report No. 81-77-K.
Haas, R.C. 1978. The Muskellunge in Lake St. Clair. Am. Fish. Soc. Spec. Publ. 11:334-339.

Harrelson, M.E., S.S. Talmage and J.B. Cravens, 1984. Thermal Effects. Journal Water Pollution
Control Federation 56(6): 708-718.

Harrison, E.J. and W. F. Hadley. 1979. Biology of Muskellunge (Esox masquinongy) in the Upper
Niagara River. Trans. Am. Fish Soc. 108:444-451.

Haymes, G.T. 1984. Atkikokan GS Preoperational Aquatic Survey Year III, 1983-1984 Report No. 84--K,
Ontario Hydro Research Division.

                                                                          22
 Heist, B.G. and W.A. Swenson 1983. Distribution and Abundance of Rainbow Smelt in Western Lake
 Superior as Determined from Acoustic Sampling. J. Great Lakes Res. 9(3):343-353.

 Hester, R.A. 1985, Entrainment of Fish Eggs and Larvae at NGD Facilities on the Great Lakes. Ontario
 Hydro Technical & Training Services Division Report No. RMEP-IR-07260-8, January 1985. 49p.

Hokanson, K.E.F. 1977. Temperature requirements of Some Percids and Adaptations to the Seasonal
Temperature Cycle. J. Fish. Res. Board Can. 34:1524-l 550.

Hokanson, K.E.F., C.F. Kleiner, and T.W. Thorslund. 1977. Effects of Constant Temperatures and Diel
Temperature Fluctuations on Specific Growth Rate and Mortality Rates and Yield of Juvenile Rainbow
Trout, Salmo gairdneri. J. Fish. Res. Board Can. 34:639-648.

Holland, L.E. and J. R. Sylvester. 1983. Distribution of Larval Fishes Related to Potential Navigation
Impacts on the Upper Mississippi River, Pool 7, Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 112:293-301

Horrall, R.S. 1981. Behavioural Stock-Isolating Mechanisms in Great Lakes Fishes with Special Refer-
ence to Homing and Site Imprinting. Can. J. Fish. Aquatic Sci. 38:1481-1496.

Houston, A.H. 1982. Thermal Effects Upon Fishes. Report NRCC No. 18566. National Research Council
of Canada. Associate Committee on Scientific Criteria for Environmental Quality. 200p.

Hutchison, V.H. 1976. Factors Influencing Thermal Tolerances of Individual Organisms pp 1O-26. ln
G.W. Esch and R.W. McFarlane ..ed Thermal Ecology Il. Natl. Tech. Inf. Serv., Springfield, Va. 404p.

Ihssen, P.E., D.O. Evans, W.J. Christie, J.A. Reckahn and R.L. Desjardine. 1981. Life History, Morpholo-
gy, and Electrophoretic Characteristics of Five Allopatric Stocks of Lake Whitefish (Coregonus
clupeaformis) in the Great Lakes Region. Can. J. Fish. Aquatic SC. 38:1790-1887.
Inskip, P.D. and J.J. Magnuson 1983. Changes in Fish Populations Over an 80-Year Period: Big Pine
Lake, Wisconsin, Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 112:378-389.

Jinks, SM., G.J. Lauer and M.E. Loftus. 1981. Advances in Techniques for Assessment of
lchthyoplankton Entrainment Survival, pp 92-l 10 In L.D. Jensen [ed] Issues Associated with Impact
Assessment: Proc. 5th National Workshop on Entrainment and Impingement, held at San Francisco,
Calif., May 5-7, 1980. Ecological Analysts, Inc. and Electric Power Research Inst, Sparks, Md. 307p.
Jobling, M. 1981. Temperature Tolerance and the Final Preferendum -Rapid Methods for the Assess-
ment of Optimum Growth Temperatures. J. Fish Biol. 19:439-455.

Kellogg, R.L. and J.J. Gift. 1983. Relationship Between Optimum Temperature for Growth and
Preferred Temperatures for the Young of Four Fish Species. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 112:424-430.

Kelso, J.R.M. and F.J. Ward 1972. Vital Statistics, Biomass and Seasonal Production of an Unexploited
Walleye (Stizostedion vitreum vitreum (Mitchill)) Population in West Blue Lake, Manitoba. J. Fish. Res.
Board Can. 29: 1043-l 052.

Kitchell, J.F., D.J. Stewart and D. Weininger. 1977. Application of a Bioenergetics Model to Yellow
Perch (Perca flavescens) and Walleye (Stizostedion vitreum vitreum) J. Fish. Res. Board Can
34: 1922-l 935.

Kowalski, K.T., J.P. Schubauer, L.L. Scott and J.R. Spotila, 1978. Interspecific and Seasonal Differ-
ences in the Temperature Tolerance of Stream Fish. J. Thermal Biol. (3) 105-108.

                                                                  23
Kwain, W. and R.W. McCauley. 1978. Effects of Age and Overhead Illumination on Temperatures
Preferred by Under-yearling Rainbow Trout, Salmo gairdneri, in a vertical temperature gradient. J.
Fish. Res. Board Can. 35:1430-1433.

Lee, R.M. and J.N. Rinne. 1980. Critical Thermal Maxima of Five Trout Species in the Southwestern
United States. Trans. Am. Fish Soc. 109:632-635.

Leidy, G.R. and R.M. Jenkins, 1977. The Development of Fishery Compartments and Population Rate
Coefficients for Use in Reservoir Ecosystem Modelling, Final Report - June 1977. Contract Report
4-77-l. Office, Chief of Engineers, U.S. Army, Washington, D.C. by USDI Fish and Wildlife Service,
National Reservoir Research Program, Fayetteville, Ark. 225p.

Maclean, J.A., D.O. Evans, N.V. Martin and R.L. Desjardine, 1981. Survival, Growth, Spawning,
Distribution and Movements of Introduced and Native Lake Trout (Salvelinus namaycush) in two
inland Ontario lakes, Can. J. Fish. Aquatic Sci. 38:1685-1700.

Madness, J.D. and V.H. Hutchison 1980. Acute Adjustment of Thermal Tolerance in Vertebrate
Ectothermy Following Exposure to Critical Thermal Maxima. J. Thermal. Biol. (5)225-233.

Magnuson, J.J., L.B. Crowder and P.A. Medvic. 1979. Temperature as an Ecological Resource. Amer.
Zool. 19:331-343.

Manion, P.J. and L.H. Hanson. 1980. Spawning Behaviour and Fecundity of Lampreys from the Upper
Three Great Lakes. Can. J. Fish. Aquatic Sci. 37:1635-1640.

Manny, B.A. 1984. Potential Impacts of Water Diversions on Fishery Resources in the Great Lakes.
Fisheries (9)5:19-23.

Mansfield, P.J. 1984, Reproduction of Lake Michigan fishes in a tributary stream. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc.
113:231-237.

Mansfield, P.J. and D.J. Jude 1983. Distribution and Abundance of Larval Burbot and Deepwater
Sculpin in Lake Michigan. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 112:162-172.

Marcy, B.C. Jr. 1976a. Fishes of the Lower Connecticut River and the Effects of the Connecticut Yankee
Plant. pp 61-113 ln D. Merriman and L.M. Thorpe (eds). The Connecticut River Ecological Study: The
Impact of a Nuclear Power Plant. Monograph No. 1. American Fisheries Society. 251 pp.

Marcy, B.C. Jr., 1976b. Planktonic Fish Eggs and Larvae of the Lower Connecticut River and the Effects
of the Connecticut Yankee Plant Including Entrainment. pp 115-139. In D. Merriman and L.M. Thorpe
..ed. The Connecticut River Ecological Study: The Impact of a Nuclear Power Plant. Monograph No. 1.
American Fisheries Society 251 p.

Marshall, T.R. 1977. Morphological, Physiological and Ethological Differences Between Walleye
(Stizostedion vitreum vitreum) and Pikeperch (S. Lucioperea) J. Fish. Res. Board Can. 34: 1515-l 523.

Mathur, D., R.M. Schutsky, E.J. Purdy, Jr., C.A. Silver. 1981. Similarities in Acute Temperature
Preferences of Freshwater Fishes. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 110:1-13.

McAllister, D. E., B.J. Parker and P.M. McKee. 1985. Rare, Endangered and Extinct Fishes in Canada.
Syllogeus No. 54. National Museums of Canada, Ottawa. 192pp.

                                                                24
 McCauley A. and N. Huggins, 1976. Behavioural Thermal Regulation by Rainbow Trout in a Tempera-
 ture Gradient pp 171-175. ln G.W. Esch and R.W. Mcfarlane [ed] Thermal Ecology II, Natl. Tech. Inf.
 Serv., Springfield, Va 404~.

 McCauley, R.W. 1981. Laboratory Studies on Directive and Acute Lethal Effects of Temperature on
Alewife (Alosa pseudoharengus) and Rainbow Smelt (Osmerus mordax) collected at Pickering GS pp
 H1-H27. In A.E. Christie [ed] Biological Investigations to Improve Once-Through Cooling System
 Designs for the Great Lakes. Report No. 81481. Environmental Studies and Assessments Dept. Design
and Development Division, Ontario Hydro December 1981, Toronto, Ontario.

McCauley, R.W. and J.M. Casselman 1980. The Final Preferendum as an Index of the Temperature for
Optimum Growth in Fish. United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, European Inland Fisher-
ies Advisory Commission, Symposium 80/E76, Rome, Italy pp83-93.
McCormick, J.H. 1978. Effects of Temperature on Hatching Success and Survival of Larvae in the
White Bass. Prog. Fish. Cult. 40:133-139

McCormick, J.H., B.R. Jones and K.E.F. Hokanson 1977. White Sucker (Catostomus commersoni)
Embryo Development, and Early Growth and Survival at Different Temperatures. J. Fish. Res. Board
Can. 34:1019-1025.

McFarlane, R.W., B.C. Moore and S.E. Williams 1976. Thermal Tolerance of Stream Cyprinid Minnows
pp 141-144. In G.W. Esch and R.W. McFarlane [ed]. Thermal Ecology Il. Natl. Tech. Inf. Serv.,
Springfield, Va. 404~.

Michaud, D.T. 1981. Ambient Temperature Tolerance of some Lake Michigan fishes. pp 281-287 In L.D.
Jensen [ed]. Issues Associated with Impact Assessment: Proc. 5th National Workshop on Entrainment
and Impingement, held at San Francisco, Calif. May 5-7, 1980. Ecological Analysts, Inc. and Electric
Power Research Inst, Sparks, Md. 307~.

Miles, R.L. 1978. A Life History Study of the Muskellunge in West Virginia. Am. Fish. Soc. Spec. Publ.
11:140-145.

Minor, J.D. and E.J. Crossman, 1978. Home Range and Seasonal Movements of Muskellunge as
Determined by Radiotelemetry. Am. Fish. Soc. Spec. Publ. 11:146-153.

Moore, L.F. 1979. Fisheries Considerations in Setting Temperature Guidelines for Power Stations.
Rev. Can. Biol. 38(4): 293-299.

Morgan II, R.P. and V.J. Rasin, Jr. 1982. Influence of Temperature and Salinity on Development of
White Perch Eggs. Trans. Am, Fish. Soc. 111:396-398.

Morman, R.H., D.W. Cuddy and P.C. Rugen 1977. Factors Influencing the Distribution of Sea Lamprey
(Petromyzon marinus) in the Great Lakes. Can. J. Fish. Aquatic Sci. 37: 181 l-1826.

Murphy, J. C., C.T. Gar-ten, Jr., M.H. Smith and E.A. Standora. 1976. Thermal Tolerance and
Respiratory Movement of Bluegill from Two Populations Tested at Different Levels of Acclimation
Temperature and Water Hardness, p 145-147. ln G.W. Esch and R.W. McFarlane [ed] Thermal
Ecology II. Natl. Tech Inf. Serv., Springfield, Va 404~.

Ney. J.J. 1978. A Synoptic Review of Yellow Perch and Walleye Biology. Am. Fish. Soc. Spec. Publ,
11:1-12.

                                                                   25
Nickum, J.G. 1978. Intensive Culture of Walleyes: The State of the Art. Am. Fish. Soc. Spec. Publ.
11: 187-l 94.

O'Brien, W.J., B. Loveless and D. Wright. 1984. Feeding Ecology of Young White Crappie in a Kansas
Reservoir. North Am. J. Fish. Manage. 4:341-349.

Otto, R.G. and J.O. Rice 1977. Responses of a Freshwater Sculpin (Cottus cognatus gracilis) to
temperature. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 106:89-94.

Otto, R.G., M.A. Kitchel and J.O. Rice. 1976, Lethal and Preferred Temperatures of the Alewife (Alosa
pseudoharengus) in Lake Michigan. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 105: 96-106.

Peck, J.W. 1982. Extended Residence of Young-of-the-Year Lake Trout in Shallow Water. Trans. Am.
Fish. Soc. 111:775-778.

Peterson, S.E., and R.M. Schutsky. 1976. Some Relationships of Upper Thermal Tolerances to
Preference and Avoidance Responses of the Bluegill. p 148-153. /n G.W. Esch and R.W. McFarlane
[ed] Thermal Ecology II. Natl. Tech. Inf. Serv., Springfield, Va. 404~.

Prince, E.D. and L.J. Mengel 1981. Aggregation of Spottail Shiners in the Heated Discharge of a
Nuclear Power Station. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 110:221-225.

Reutter, J.M. and C.E. Herdendorf. 1976. Thermal Discharge from a Nuclear Power Plant: Predicted
Effects on Lake Erie Fish. Ohio J. Science 26:39-45

Reynolds, W.W. and M.E. Casterlin. 1978. Behavioural Thermoregulation and Diel Activity in White
Suckers (Catostomus commersoni) Comp. Biochem. Physiol. 59A:261-262.

Richards, F.P. and R.M. Ibara. 1978. The Preferred Temperatures of the Brown Bullhead, (lctalurus
nebulosus) with Reference to its Orientation to the Discharge Canal of a Nuclear Power Plant. Trans.
Am. Fish. Soc. 107:288-294.

Richards, F.P., W.W. Reynolds, and R.W. McCauley. 1977. Temperature Preference Studies in Environ-
mental Impact Assessments: An Overview with Procedural Recommendations. J. Fish. Res. Board
Can. 34: 728-761.

Richkus, W.A. and H.E. Winn. 1979. Activity Cycles of Adult and Juvenile Alewives, Alosa
pseudoharengus, Recorded by Two Methods. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 108:358-365.

Rodgers, D.W. and J.S. Griffiths. 1983. Effects of Elevated Thermal Regimes on Survival of Rainbow
Trout (Salmo gairdneri) alevins. J. Great Lakes Res. 9(3):421-424.

Schneider, M.J. and C.D. Becker et al. 1975. Aquatic Physiology of Thermal and Chemical Discharges,
p 547-556. In Environmental Effects of Cooling Systems at Nuclear Power Plants. (IAEA) Int. Atomic
Energy Agency, Vienna.

Scott, W.B. and E.J. Crossman. 1973. Freshwaster Fishes of Canada. Bulletin 184. Fisheries Research
Board of Canada, Ottawa 966p.

Shuter, B.J., J.A. MacLean, F.E.J. Fry, and H.A. Regier. 1980. Stochastic simulation of temperature
effects on first-year survival of smallmouth bass. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 109:1-34.

                                                                   26
Smagula, C.M. and R. Adelman 1982. Temperature and Scale Size Errors in the Use of [`"Cl Glycine
 Uptake by Scales as a Growth Index. Can. J. Fish. Aquatic Sci. 39:1366-1372.

Smith, L.L. Jr., and W.M. Koenst. 1975. Temperature Effects on Eggs and Fry of Percoid Fishes. Report
EPA 660/3-75-017, May 1975. U.S. EPA National Environmental Research Centre, Office of Research
and Development, Corvallis, Ore.

Spigarelli, S.A. and D.W. Smith. 1976. Growth of Salmonid Fishes from Heated and Unheated Areas of
Lake Michigan - Measured by RNA-DNA Ratios pp 100-105. ln G.W. Esch and R.W. McFarlane [ed].
Thermal Ecology II. Natl. Tech. Inf. Serv., Springfield, Va 404~.

Spigarelli, S.A. and M.M. Thommes. 1979. Temperature Selection and Estimated Thermal
Acclimation by Rainbow Trout (Salmo gairdneri) in a Thermal Plume. J. Fish. Res. Board Can.
36:366-376.

Spotila, J.R., K.M. Terpin, R.R. Koons and R.L. Benati, 1979. Temperature Requirements of Fishes from
Eastern Lake Erie and the Upper Niagara River: A Review of the Literature. Env. Biol. Fish. Vol.
4(3):281-307.

Stasiak, R.H. 1978. Reproduction, Age, and Growth of the Finescale Dace, Chrosomus neogaeus, in
Minnesota. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc 107:720-723.

Stun& W.E., and J.J. Magnuson 1976. Daily Ration, Temperature Selection and Activity of Bluegill
~180-184. In G.W. Esch and R.W. McFarlane ..ed. Thermal Ecology II. Natl. Tech. Inf. Serv., Springfield,
V a . 404~.

Talmage, S.S. 1978. Thermal Effects on Aquatic Organisms: An Annotated Bibliography of the 1976
Literature Report ORNL/E1S-124. Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tenn. 249p.

Talmage, S.S. and C.C. Coutant. 1980. Thermal Effects. J. Water Pollution Control Federation
52:1575-1616.

Talmage, S.S. and C.C. Coutant 1979. Thermal Effects. J. Water Pollution Control Federation
51:1517-1554.

Talmage, S.S. and C.C. Coutant 1978. Thermal Effects. J. Water Pollution Control Federation
50:1514-1553.

Teleki, G.C. 1976. The Incidence and Effect of Once-Through Cooling on Young-of-the-Year Fishes at
Long Point Bay, Lake Erie: A Preliminary Assessment pp 387-393 ln G.W. Esch and R.W. McFarlane
[eds]. Thermal Ecology II: Natl. Tech. lnfo. Serv., Springfield, Va. 404~.

Thorgaard, G.H., M.E. Jazwin and A.R. Stier. 1981. Polyploidy Induced by Heat Shock in Rainbow
Trout. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 110:546-550.

Thorpe, J.E. 1977. Morphology, Physiology, Behaviour and Ecology of Perca f/uvjatj/js and P.
flavescens Mitchell. J. Fish. Res. Board Can. 34:1504-1514.

Tin, H.T. and D.J. Jude 1983. Distribution and Growth of Larval Rainbow Smelt in Eastern Lake
Michigan, 1978-1981. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 112:517-524.

                                                                   27
Tyler, A.V. 1966. Some Lethal Temperature Relations of Two Minnows of the Genus Chrosomus. Can.
J. Zool. 44:349-364.

Uziel, M.S. 1980. Entrainment and Impingement at Cooling Water Intakes. Journal of Water Pollution
Control Federation 52(6): 1616-l 630.

Venables, B.J., L.C. Fitzpatrick and W.D. Pearson. 1978. Acclimation Temperature and Temperature
Tolerance in Fingerling Largemouth Bass (Micropoterus salmoides). Environ. Pollut. 17: 161-165.

Witzel, L.D. and H.R. MacCrimmon 1983. Redd-site Selection by Brook Trout and Brown Trout in
Southwestern Ontario Streams. Trans. Am. Fish Soc. 112:760-771.

Wolters, W.R., and C. C. Coutant. 1976. The Effect of Cold Shock on the Vulnerability of Young Bluegill
to Predation. ~162-164. ln G.W. Esch and R.W. McFarlane [ed]. Thermal Ecology Il. Natl. Tech. Inf.
Serv., Springfield, Va 404~.

Wrenn, W.B. 1976. Preliminary Assessment of Larval Fish Entrainment, Colbert Steam Plant, Tennes-
see River pp. 381-386 In Esch, G.W. and R.W. McFarlane (eds) Thermal Ecology II: Natl. Tech. Inf. Serv.,
Springfield, Va. 404 pp.

Wrenn, W.B. 1980. Effects of elevated temperature on growth and survival of smallmouth bass. Trans.
Am. Fish. Soc. 109:617-625.

Wrenn, W.B. 1984. Smallmouth Bass Reproduction in Elevated Temperature Regimes at the Species'
Native Southern Limit. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 113:295-303.

Wrenn, W.B. and T.D. Forsythe. 1978. Effects of Temperature on Production and Yield of Juvenile
Walleyes in Experimental Ecosystems. Am. Fish. Soc. Spec. Publ. 11:66-73.

Wyman, R.L. 1981. Fish Residency and Spawning Activity in Generating Station Discharges. pp G-l to
G-161 In A.E. Christie [ed]. Biological Investigations to Improve Once-Through Cooling System
Designs for the Great Lakes, Report No. 81481. Env. Stud. &Assessments Dept. Design & Devel Div.,
Ontario Hydro, Dec 1981.

Yoder, C.O. and J.R. Gammon, 1976, Seasonal Distribution and Abundance of Ohio River Fishes at the
J.M. Stuart Electric Generating Station, pp 284-295 ln Esch, G.W. and R.W. McFarlane (eds). Thermal
Ecology II: Natl. Tech. Info. Serv., Springfield, Va. 404~~.

                                                           ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The authors wish to thank reviewers from the University of Toronto and the Ontario Ministry of
Natural Resources and those from the following Ontario Hydro departments who provided technical
comments on this document: Radioactivity Management and Environmental Protection, Chemical
Research, Environmental Protection (Central Thermal Services).

The authors are continually updating the document with plans to design a fish computer informa-
tion database. Any comments, corrections or additional data and/or references are requested to be
forwarded to the authors at Ontario Hydro.

                                                                    28
5.0 FISH TEMPERATURE DATABASE

5.1 Abbreviations

Size

TL      = total length in millimeters. See Carlander (1977) for definition.

FL      = fork length in millimeters. See Carlander (1977) for definition. A single number or range

             of numbers in the size column of a database table represents FL in millimeters.

SL      = standard length in millimeters. See Carlander (1977) for definition.

g       = weight in grams

in      = length in inches

Age

d       = day(s)

mo      = month(s)

wk      = week(s)

yr      = year
YOY     = young-of-the-year

egg     = embryo inside egg envelope (Balon 1984)

free embryo
(yolk-sac
larva) = hatched but uses endogenous food supply - yolk sac (Balon 1984).

embryo = endogenous feeding, not free-swimming

fry     = exogenous feeding, free-swimming, rising or risen from nesting site, jerky swimming.

larval  = can include fry stage, but usually implies the transition from jerky to fluent free-
            swimming is complete, beginning of schooling, dispersing from nest site.

j u v e n i l e = older YOY; less than or equal to one year old; younger yearlings (aged 1-1.5 year). A
                   sub-adult is a juvenile older than 1.5 years up to the age of first maturity (McCauley and
                   Casselman 1980).

adult   = sexually mature

Temperature

Temperature, values in the columns of the database tables are given in degrees celsius unless
otherwise indicated as degrees Farenheit by F symbol after the number.

                               29
Seasons

SP       = Spring

Su       = Summer

F        = Fall

Wi or W = Winter

Day or Night

D        = Day

N        = Night

                   30
SPECIES: Petromyzon marinus (sea lamprey)

                                                                                                                        THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-          Accli-  Upper       Lower     log time =                          Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation                  Incip.      Incip.                  Data Limits sure             tance   Thermal
             Temp                                Lethal                  Upper Lower Temp             Time    (Max)
Size or Age                  mation Sea- Lethal  Temp      a + b (temp)                               (Min)
(mm)
                             Time son Temp                 a  b                                                         Location             Reference

egg          18                      12                                                                                                      Spotila et al 1979
                                     14
(64 cell)                            23                                                                                                      Spotila et al 1979
                                     20
egg          18                      31                                                                                                      Spotila et al 1979
                                     > 29.5
(64 cell)                            28.5                                                                                                    Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                             Jobling 1981
egg          18                      31.4                                                                                                    Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                                             Brown 1974
(64 cell)                                                                                                                                    Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                             Spotila et al 1979
egg          18                                                                                                                              Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                             Spotila et al 1979
prolarva     15120                                         17.5642-0.4680 34  29                                        Great Lakes
ammocoetes   5
             15                                                                                               29.5
             25                                                                                               30
                                                                                                              31

SPECIES: Petromyzon marinus (sea lamprey)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                 Final        Lower           Acclimation Acclimation         PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                      Night Avoidance                                     Temperature Time                Location
                                                 Preferendum Avoidance                                                                       Reference

  larvae                                         13.6                                                                                        Jobling 1981
 adult                                                                                                                                       Talmage and Coutant 1979
                                                 14.3                         10                                                             Morman et al 1980
                         su                                                                                                                  Morman et al 1980
                                                 6-15                                                                                        Morman et al 1980
                         SP                                                                                                                  Morman et al 1980
ammocoetes Su                                    <6

 larvae                                          10-26. 1                                                     Streams
                                                                                                              L. Superior tributaries
                                                 15-20
SPECIES: Petromyzon marinus (sea lamprey)

                                           (b)                                                              GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                            Reference
Size or Age   Optimum             (a)      ST   No Growth Limits
(mm)          "C
                       Range      MWAT Max      Upper   Lower     Location

30-90 g; large 15                                                       land locked                         Farmer et al 1977
1O-30 g; small 20                                       <3                                                  Farmer et al 1977
                                                                                                            Farmer et al 1977
                                  20.5 28                                                                   This study

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Petromyzon marinus (sea lamprey)

                                                                                                            SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

              Season                            (b)
              and/or
              Accli-                            ST Max            (4                 k)             (d)
              mation                                              Lethal             Lethal Median  Median
              Temp                              for     Accli-    Limit              Limit Lethal   Lethal
                                                                                     L o w e r AT   Final
                       Optimum Temp (a)         Embryo mation     Upper

Event                  Temp       Range MWAT    Survival Time                                               Location                      Reference

spawning               14.4-15.6  >4.4                                                                      hatchery Cayuga L.. N.Y.      Scott and Crossman 1973
migration                         11.1-11.7
spawning               18.3       11.1-24.4                                                                 Lab                           Scott and Crossman 1973
onset                  21.7       13.9-18.3
spawning                                                                                                    L. Huron                      Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching               20-21      15.5-21                                                                   Gt. Lakes                     Scott and Crossman 1973
(14d)                             7-21                                                                      Gt. Lakes
                       18.5                                                                                 Gt. Lakes                     Scott and Crossman 1973
swim-up       7.527               12.8-18.3                       21.5 16                                                                 Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching               15.5       1O-22.8                                                                                                 Carlander 1969
metamor-               14.0       11.1-26.1                                                                                               Cravens 1982
phosis                 15.7       11-25
                       18.2       10-26,1                                                                                                 Beltz et al 1974
egg
incubation             20-21                                                                                                              Manion and Hanson 1980
spawning                                                                                                                                  Manion and Hanson 1980
spawning                                                                                                                                  Manion and Hanson 1980
spawning                                                                                                                                  Manion and Hanson 1980
spawning                                                                                                                                  Morman et al 1980
spawning                                                                                                                                  Morman et al 1980
larval devel

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
          Season                                (b)
          and/or
          Accli-                                ST Max          (c)     id            (d       )
          mation                                                Lethal                        Location
          Temp                                  for     Accli-  Limit   Lethal Median Median

                  Optimum Temp (a)              Embryo mation   Upper   Limit Lethal Lethal

Event             Temp       Range MWAT         Survival Time           L o w e r AT  Final             Reference

spawning          13-18                                                                                 Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching          15.6-17.8                                                                             Scott and Crossman 1973
(5-8d)
spawning                     12-15                                                            Wisc.     Carlander 1969
spawning                                                                                      Ont.      Carlander 1969
spawning                           12-19                                                      Que.      Carlander 1969
                  18.4                                                                                  This study

                                          15.5  19

        (a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
        (b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
        (c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
w (d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
w
SPECIES: Lepisosteus oculatus (spotted gar)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                  Final             Lower      Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                      Night Avoidance                                      Temperature Time         Location
                                                  Preferendum Avoidance                                                                  Reference

                             =-xi                                                                       Colbert G.S. Tennessee R.        Beltz et al 1974
                                                      15-17                                             Rondeau Bay, L. Erie             McAllister et al 1985

SPECIES: Lepisosteus osseus (longnose gar)                                                                                               Reference

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                  Final             Lower      Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:          Coutant 1977a
(mm)                      Night Avoidance                                      Temperature Time         Location                         Coutant 1977a
                                                  Preferendum Avoidance                                                                  Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                                         Coutant 1977a
large                                             30-31.8                                               L. Monona, Wisc.                 Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                                        Wabash R., Ind.                  Yoder and Gammon 1976
large                        34.5                                   29                                  Lab                              Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                                        Lab                              Yoder and Gammon 1976
YOY          Sll                                  25.3                                                  J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R., Ohio    Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                                        J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R.. Ohio
adult        su                                   33.1                                                  J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R., Ohio
                                                                                                        Wabash R., Ind.
             St1                                  30-34                                                 White R., Ind.

             F                                    24-28

             W                                    12-16

                                                  33-35

                                                  34

SPECIES: Lepisosteus osseus (longnose gar)

                                             (b)                                                        GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                        Reference
Size or Age  Optimum         (a)             ST              No Growth Limits                           Scott and Crossman 1973
(mm)         "C
                      Range  MWAT Max                        Upper      Lower  Location

             26.4                                                              Lab

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature -optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.
SPECIES: Amia calva [bowfin)

                                                                                                             THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-          Upper    Lower   log time =                  Expo-  Resis-    Critical
             mation  motion         hip.      Incip.                              sure   tance     Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time     Sea           Lethal a  + b (temp)  Data Limits     Temp   Time      /MaId
(mm)                           son  Lethal    Temp                   Upper Lower         (Min)
                                    Tamp              a       b                                              Location             Reference

             23.8             su                                                                   37        Lab                  Reutter and Herdendorf 1976

SPECIES: Amia calva (bowfin)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper            Final          Lower          Acclimation Acclimation       PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                      Night Avoidance                                 Temperature Time              Location
                                            Preferendum Avoidance                                                                 Reference
                                                                                                                                  Houston 1982
                                            30.5                                                        Lab

SPECIES: Amia calva (bowfin)

                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                        SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                   bi
             and/or
             Accli-                                   ST Max              Id      Id               (d)
             mation                                                       Lethal
             Temp                                     for         Accli-  Limit   Lethal Median Median

                     Optimum Temp (a)                 Embryo mation       Upper   Limit Lethal Lethal

Event                Temp           Range M W A T     Survival Time               L o w e r AT     Final     Location             Reference

spawnrny             16-19                                                                                                        Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                  This study
                                            17.5      19+

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures,
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Nor incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entramment temperatures.
     SPECIES: Alosa pseudoharengus (alewife)

                                                                                                                             THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                  Accli-  Accli-            Upper  Lower   log time =                               Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                  mation  mation            ldp.   Incip.                 Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
     Size or Age  Temp    Time    S e a - L0thd    Lethal  a + b (ternp)  Upper Lower Tamp                 Time    (Max)
     (mm)                         MR Tmnp          Tamp                                                    mill)
                                                           a  fs                                                             Location             Reference

     egg          12-25           24.5                                                                     60                Lab                  Jinks 81 al 1981
                  14-24           37.1                                                                                                            Jinks et al 1981
     larva        14-24           36.1                                                                     5                                      Jinks et al 1981
     larva        14-24           34.5                                                                                                            Jinks al al 1981
     larva        14-24           33.4                                                                     10                                     Jinks et al 1981
     larva        14-24           31.4                                                                                                            Jinks et al 1981
     larva        23-25           32.9                                                                     30                                     Jinks et al 1981
     71.80; YOY   23.25           32.2                                                                                                            Jinks et al 1981
     71-80; YOY   23.25           32.2                                                                     60                                     Jinks et al 1981
     71-80; YOY   1O-12           26.5                                                                                                            Otto et al 1976
     28 47; YOY   18-20           30.3                                                                     1440                                   0110 et al 1376
     28 47; YOY   24 26           32.1                                                                                                            0110 et al 1976
     28 47; YOY   13              28                                                                       60                                     Jinks et al 1981
                                                                                                                                                  Richkus and Winn 1979
     egg          27                            3                                                          1440                                   McCauley and Binkowski 1982
     juvenile                     28.2                                                                                                            McCauley and Binkowski 1982
     adult                                                                                                 5760                                   McCauley and Binkowski 1982
                                                7                                                                                                 McCauley and Binkowski 1982
                                  23.5                                    26.5                             150                                    McCauley and Binkowski 1982
                                  23.5                                                                                                            McCauley and Binkowski 1982
                                  24.5                                    30.5                             170                                    McCauley and Binkowski 1962
                                  32.1                                                                                                            Spotila et al 1979
                                  26.5                                    32.0                             520                                    Otto et al 1976
                                  30.3                                                                                                            Otto et al 1976
                                                                          27                               14000 31-34       Lab                  0110 et al 1976
                                                <6                                                                                                Otto et al 1976
                                                3                         20                               13757                                  0110 et al 1976
                                                                                                                                                  Otto et al 1976
w                                                                         29                               8400                                   Otto et al 1976
0-a                                                                                                                                               Otto et al 1976
                                                                          30                               3441

                                                                          31                               377

                                                                          32                               74

                                                                          33                               37

                  17.2

     adult        10                                                                                               28.6
                                                                                                                   30.6
     adult        15                                                                                               32.6
                                                                                                                   34.4
     add1         20                                                                                               26.3
                                                                                                                   31.9
     YOY          25

     YOY          10

     YOY          20

     adult        21                                                                                                         Lab
                                                                                                                             Lab (LJLILT)
     adult        5.21
SPECIES: Alosa pseudoharengus (alewife)                                                                                                                           Page 2 of 3

                                                                                                                        THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-    Accli-         Upper   Lower   log time 5                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation    mation         IlUip.  Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp      Time    Sea-  Lethal   Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mid                            son  Temp     Temp                                                   (Min)
                                                      a  b                                                              Location             R&SW

juvenile     17                SU 24.5                              31                               10                 Lab                  McCauley 1331
juvenile     17                                                                                                         Lab                  McCauley 1981
juvenile     17                su                                   30                               57                 Lab                  McCauley 1381
juvenile     17                su                                                                                       Lab                  McCauley 1981
juvenile     17                SU                                   23                               106                Lab                  McCauley 1981
juvenile     17                su                                                                                       Lab                  McCauley 1981
juvenile     17                                                     28                               1060               Lab                  McCauley 1981
pJelrlle     9                                                                                                          Lab                  McCauley 1981
pv'!nlle     20                                                     27                               1880               Lab                  McCauley 1981
adult        17                                                                                                         Lab                  McCauley 1981
adult        15                SU                                   26                               2800               Lab                  McCauley 1981
                                                                                                                        Lab                  McCauley 1981
JUV"rllle    20                SU                                   25                               2150               Lab (L. Ont.)        McCauley 1981
             0.6-19.5          SU < 2 3                                                                                 Lab (L. Ont.)        McCauley 1981
~tiUl1       16.9                                                                                                       Lab (L. Ont.)        McCauley 1981
adult                                   24.5                                                                            Lab (L. Ont.)        McCauley 1981
WiUll                                   8.5                                                                             Lab (L. Ont.)        McCauley 1981
adult                                   7                                                                               Lab (L. Ont.)
adult                          s u 5-10                                                                                 Lab (L. Ont.)        McCauley 1981
adult                                                                                                                   Lab (L. Ont.)
C3dUll                         su                                                                    3600               Lab (L. Ont.)        McCauley 1981
adult                                                                                                                   Lab (L. Ont.)        McCauley 1981
adult                          su                                                                    4980               Lab (L. Ont.)        McCauley 1981
adult                                                                                                                   Lab (L. Ont.)         McCauley 1981
adult                          su                                                                    9480                                     McCauley 1981
adult                                                                                                                                         McCauley 1981
adult                          su                                                                    8100                                     McCauley 1981
adult                                                                                                                                         McCauley 1981
                               su                                                                    >12360                                   McCauley 1981
~dllll                                                                                                                                        McCauley 1981
                               su                                                                    1620                                     Cravens et al 1983

                               SU                                                                    2181

                               SI                                                                    2550

                               su                                   8                                1662

                               `311                                 9                                2250

                               su                                   10                               6054

                                              2.5

                                              8

                               w              4

                                                                                                             25-32
                                                                                                             30.5-31.8

                                     31 34
SPECIES: Alosa pseudoharengus [alewife)                                                                                                               Page 3 of 3

                                                                                                                    THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-   Accli-  Upper           Lower   log time =                          Expo-  Resis-   Critical
             mation           Incip.          Incip.                Data Limits sure             tance    Thermal
             Temp                             Lethal                Upper Lower Temp             Time     (Max)
Size or Age           mation Sea- Lethal      Temp    a + b (temp)                               (Min)
(mm)
                      Time son Temp                   a  b                                                          Location               Reference

YOY          23.9-30                    15                          33.5                         12.5-25            Connecticut Yankee GS  Brown 1974
YOY          23.9-30                   22.6                         28.2                         50-100                                    Brown 1974
YOY          5                        >20                           17                           180                Lab                    Brown 1974
YOY          5                         <22.8                        15                           4800               Lab                    Brown 1974
YOY          9                                                      26                           60                 Lab                    Brown 1974
adull        5                         22.8                         22.5                         40                 Lab                    Brown 1974
atlull       9                         33.3                                                                         Lab                    Brown 1974
adtrll       10               SI1 31.4                              24                           180                Lid>                   Brown 1974
UlCllf       20               Sll 23.2                              24                           4800               Lab                    Brown 1974
~d~lll       20               SI                                    28                           300                                       Brown 1974
             15                                                                                                     Maritimes stream       Brown 1974
             28.3                                                                                         30.2      Lab                    Brown 1974
                                                                                                                    Lab                    Brown 1974
               20                                                                                                                          McCauley 1981
             18.2                                                                                                                          Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
SPECIES: Alosa pseudoharengus (alewife)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper           Final      Lower       Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                      Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time         Location
                                           Preferendum Avoidance                                                    Reference

                                           18.8                                            Cayuga L. N.Y.           Coutant 1977a
                                                                                           L. Michigan              Coutant 1977a
                      22                              8.0                                  Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                    Brown 1974
adult        Sp                            21.3                                            L. Michigan              Brown 1974
                                                                                           L. Michigan              McCauley 1981
                                                      10                                   L. Michigan              Talmage and Coutant 1980
                                                                                                                    Talmage and Coutant 1980
             su       30                   27.8-28.3                                       L. Michigan              Talmage and Coutant 1980
                                                                                           L. Michigan              Wyman 1981
adult                                      17.2                   25     48h               L. Michigan              Brandt et al 1980b
                                                                                                                    Brandt et al 1980b
young        su                            17-19                                           L. Michigan              Brandt et al 1980b
                                                                                           L. Huron (27-40 m)       Uziel 1980
                                           11-14                                           L. Huron (27-42 m)       Michaud 1981
                                                                                           Lab                      Argyle 1982
adult        F                             11-16                                           Lab                      Argyle 1982
                                                                                           Lab                      Spotila et al 1979
                                           16-21                                           Lab                      Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                           Lab                      Otto et al 1976
YOY                                        16-20                                           Lab                      Otto et al 1976
                                                                                           Lab                      Otto et al 1976
YOY                                        24-28                                           Lab                      Otto et al 1976
                                                                                           Lab                      Otto et al 1976
YOY                D                       17-20                                            Lab (L. Michigan)       Otto et al 1976
                                                                                            Lab (L. Michigan)       Otto et al 1976
all sizes                                             3.0                                   Lab (L. Michigan)       Otto et al 1976
                                                                                            Lab (L. Michigan)       Otto et al 1976
             year     16                   8-10       4                                     Lab (L. Michigan)       Otto et al 1976
                                                                                            L. Michigan             Otto et al 1976
subadult     F                             12.3-14.5                                        L. Michigan             Otto et al 1976
                                                                                           L. Michigan              Crowder et al 1981
<140; adult F                              12.3-16.1                                        L. Michigan             Crowder et al 1981
                                                                                                                    Crowder et al 1981
YOY          su                            31.3                                                                     Crowder et al 1981

adult        F                             19.6

adult        w                             12.0                   1-3
                                                                  7-l 1
adult        SP                            21                     1o-11
                                                                  15-18
adult        Su                            19                     1o-12
                                                                  5-9
adult        su                            16                     1-4
                                                                  15-18
adult        F                             16                     24-25
                                                                  1O-12
adult        F                             16                     5-9
                                                                  1-4
adult        w                             11

YOY          su                            25

YOY          SU                            25

YOY          F                             24

YOY          F                             21

YOY          w                             19

YOY          F     D                       19-20

YOY          F     N                       17-18
adult
             F     D                       11-14

adult        F     N                       13-16
SPECIES: Alosa pseudoharengus (alewife)

                                                (b)                                                                   GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                                      Reference
Size or Age     Optimum              (a)        ST       No Growth Limits
(mm)            %
                         Range       MWAT Max            Upper         Lower    Location

YOY                                             34.4-35                2.2-5.6  L. Erie                               Brown 1974
age 1.2                                                                2.2-5.6  Lab                                   Griffiths 1978

(a) MWAT [maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature-optimum temp for growth)
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Alosa pseudoharengus (alewife)

                                                                                                                SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                Season                                   (b)
                and/or
                Accli-                                   ST Max                 (c)       k)           Ml
                mation                                                          Lethal
                Temp                                     for           Accli-   Limit     Lethal Median Median

                         Optimum Temp (a)                Embryo mation          Upper     Limit Lethal Lethal

Event                    Temp        Range MWAT          Survival Time                    Lower AT     Final    Location               Reference

SpilWlllll~l                         Li.l 22.2 14.4                                                                                    Brown 1974

spawrtirt(l              12.9-13.1                                                                              L. Mattamuskeet, N.C.  Brown 1974

spawning                 13-16                                                                                  Wis.                   Brown 1974

soawrtin(j               13-21                                                                                  Me.                    Brown 1974

spawr\irl!l              l!j,(i-X.7                                                                             Lab                    Brown 1974

S~)iIWltill((            17 19                                                                                  L. Hopateong, N.J.     Brown 1974

embryo tlovcl.           17.8        10-26.7             27.8                                                   Lab                    Brown 1974

                23.9-30                                                         35.5                                                   Brown 1974

YOY             16                                                     2.5d     31.2                                                   Brown 1974

cf~tramm~~rtl 2 0                                                                              18      38                              Moore 1979

cold shock 33-34                                                                               -23-24 10                               Coutant 1977b

hatching        12.7-29.7 20.8                                                  29.7                                                   Cravens et al 1983

larvae          14-15                                                  24h      31                                                     Cravens et al 1983

spawning                 22                                                                                                            Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                                       Carlander 1969
heat shock 27-28                                                                33.3

heat shock 20                                                                                  + 18.2           Lab (onshore)          Fahmy and Crippen 1981

heat shock 20                                                                                  + 19.0           Lab (tempering)        Fahmy and Crippen 19131

heat shock 20                                                                                  3 18.6           Lab (offshore)         Fahmy and Crippen 1981

tliJlCllil~l)            17.7                                                                                                          Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                       Hester 1985
entrainment                                                                     30-35                           Hudson R. powerplants

entrainment 14-24                                                                                      36.1     Hudson R. powerplants  Hester 1985
cold shock 21                                                                                                                          Otto et al 1976
                                                                                          6.0  -15.0            Lab

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures

(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.

(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).

(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
     SPECIES: Dorosoma cepedianum (gizzard shad)

                                                                                                                                       THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                  Accli-       Accli-         Upper   Lower    log time =                              Expo-         Resis-  Critical
                  mation       mation         Incip.  Incip.                 Data Limits sure                        tanca   Thermal
     Size or Age  Temp.        Time    Sea-           Lethal   a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                        Time    IMSX)
     (mm)                               son  Lethal   Temp                                                           Win)
                                             Temp              a     b                                                                 Location             Reference

     adult        15.9                 Fa                                                                                    31.7      Lab                  Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                                                                                                                                            Ellis 1984
                  25                   su                                                35.5                        7-20              Put-in-Bay. Ohio     Ellis 1984
                                                                                                                                       Put-in-Bay, Ohio     Ellis 1984
                  25                   su                                                35                          50                Put-in-Bay, Ohio
                                                                                                                                       Knoxville, Tenn      Brown 1974
                  25                   su                                                34.5                        110               Knoxville, Tenn      Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                       Knoxville. Tenn      Brown 1974
     under-                                                                                                                            L. Darnadelle, Ark   Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                       Mississippi R.       Brown 1974
     yearling     25                         34-34.5 10.8      47.1163-1.3010 35.6 34.5                                                                     Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                            Talmage and Coutant 1980
                  30                         36.0     14.5     38.0658-0.9694 38.0 36.5                                                                     Talmage 1978

                  35                         36.5     20.0     31.5434-0.7710 39.0 37.0                                                                     Wrenn 1976
                                                                                                                                                            Adams et al 1982
                  25                                           32.1348-0.8698 35.5 35.0                                                                     Adams et al 1982

                  30                                           44.1030-0.0547 38.0 36.5

                  35                                           33.2846-0.8176 39.0 36.5

                                                      o-o.5

                                       su 28.5                                                                               31.0

rp
c-'
     juvenile     25                                                                                             34
                                                      9
     <133                                             3

     >133

     SPECIES: Dorosoma cepedianum (gizzard shad)

     Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                 Final       Lower      Acclimation Acclimation                         PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
     (mm)                        Night Avoidance                             Temperature Time                                Location
                                                      Preferendum Avoidance                                                                                 Reference

     adult        St1                                 19.0                                                                   Lab                            Ruetter and Herdendorf 1976
                                                      20.5                                                                   Lab                            Ruetter and Herdendorf 1976
                  F
                                                                                                                             Wabash R. Ind.                 Coutant 1977a
     large                             30                         23.5                                                       Norris Res. Tenn.              Coutant 1977a
     large                                                                                                                   Nanticoke GS                   Ellis 1984
                                                      23.0                                                                   L. Mich                        Brown 1974
                           su                                                                                                Ottoville Quarry, Ohio         Talmage and Coutant 1980
                                                      26-34                                                                                                 Wyman 1981
                                                                                                                             Power plant, Ohio R.           Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                      1o-12                                                                  Power plant, Ohio R.           Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                                                             Power plant. Ohio R.           Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                      >12                                                                    Lab                            Yoder and Gammon 1976

     adult                             31                         8

     190          su                                  26-34

     190          F                                   1o-22

     190          W                                   4-10

     240          su                                  28.5-31
SPECIES: Dorosoma cepedianum (gizzard &ad)

Size or Age  Optimum                           (b)  No Growth Limits                                          GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                             &AT EM                                                                       Reference
             "c       fhfp                          upp~    L0W.I     Location
                                                                                                              Brown 1974
                                                            18.3      L. Erie,                                Brown 1974
                                                                      White R., Wabash R. Ind.                Leidy and Jenkins 1977
                      29.6-31.0        >37.5                                                                  This study

             16-18

                                 23.2

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature. optimum temp for growth)
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Dorosoma cepedianum (gizzard shad)

                                                                                                              SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                 (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                 ST Max            Id        ICI                   (d)
             mation                                                   Lethal    Lethal                Median
             Temp                                   for     Accli-    Limit     Limit   Median        Lothaf
                                                                                        Lethal        FiMf
                      O p t i m u m T e m p ial     Embryo mation     Wwr

Event                 Temp       Range MWAT         Survival Time                                             Location                  Reforonco

heal shock W                                                                            + 12/ + 16            Gt. Lakes power plant     Ellis 1964
                                                                                                              Lake Erie                 Brown 1974
spawning                         1o-21.1                                                                      Sandusky R. Ohio          Brown 1974
                                              22                                                              L. Erie                   Brown 1974
hatch                 22.2                                                                                                               Brown 1974
                                                                                                              Gt. Lakes power plant      Brown 1974
cold shock W 26                                                                                   -6                                     Carlander 1969
                                                                      31.7
heat shock W                                                          35.7                                                               Coutant 1977b
                                                                                                                                        Edsall and Yocum 1972
heat shock W                                                                                                                            Edsall and Yocum 1972

spawning              22                                                                                                                Edsall and Yocum 1972
                                                                                                                                        Edsall and Yocum 1972
cold shock W 27                                                                         - 18                                            Edsall and Yocum 1972
                                                                                        - 10                                            Talmage, 1978
cold shock    10                                                                0       - 11.6                                          Ellis 1994
                                                                                3.5     -13                                             This study
cold shock    15                                                                7.5     -14
                                                                                11      - 16.6
cold shock    20                                                                14.6
                                                                                6-7     4
cold shock    25

cold shock    30

cold shock 15-20

cold shock W

                                                    722.2

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less then or equal to optimum. or middle of range of spawning temperatures.

(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.

(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).

(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
   SPECIES: Oncorhynchus gorbuscha (pink salmon)

                                                                                                                                     THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                Accli-   Accli-               Upper   Lower      log time -                                Ellp-   Resis-  Critical
                mation  mation                blcip.  tip.                       Data Limits sure                  tance   Thermal
   Size or Age  Temp     Time                         Lethal     a -t- b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                  Time    (bid
                                 S e a - Lethd        Tamp                                                        (Min)
   (mm)                                                          a  b                                                                Location             Reference
                                   s o n T-P

   young                         23.9                                                                                                                     Scott and Crossman 1973
                                 21.3                                                                                                                     Brown 1974
   381; fry     5                22.5                            11.1627-0.4215 24  22                                               Lab, Wash.           Brown 1974
                                 23.1                                                                                                Lab, Wash.           Brown 1974
                10                                               11.9021-0.3865 26.5 23                                              Lab, Wash.           Brown 1974
                                 23.9                                                                                                                     Brown 1974
                15               23.9                            12.6937-0.4074 27  23.5                                             Lab, Wash.
                                                                                                                                     Lab, Wash.
                20                                               16.2444-0.4074 27.5 24
                                                                 14.7111-0.4459 27.5 24.5
                24

Q
w
   SPECIES: Oncorhynchus gorbuscha (pink salmon)

   Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                   Final         Lower           Acclimation Acclimation                PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
   hml                       Night Avoidance                                        Temperature Time                       Location
                                                      Preferendum Avoidance                                                                               Reference

    vouw                                              12 14                                                                Lab                            Scott and Crossman 1973
    small                                             11.7                                                                                                Coulant 1977a
    newly                                                                                                                  Lab
     emerged                                          11.7-12.8                                                            Lab                            Coulant 1977a
    50 days                                           9.3                                                                  Lab                            Coutant 1977a
                                                      11.7                                                                 Lab; L. Superior fish          Jobling 1961
   $36 weeks                                          10                                                                                                  Cravens et al 1983
SPECIES: Oncorhynchus gorbuscha (pink salmon)

                                  bl                                                                 GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                     Reference
Size or Age  Optimum        (a)   ST             No Growth limits
(mm)         "C                                                                                      Jobling 198 1
                      Range YWAT Max             Upper   Lower     -acotion                          This study

             15.5

                            18.3  21.7

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Oncorhynchus gorbuscha (pink salmon)

                                                                                                     SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                              (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                              ST Man            (c)       !d              (4
             mation                                                Lethal    Lethal          Median
                                                 for     Accli-    Limit     Limit   Median  Lethal
             Temp                                                            Lower   Lethal  Final
                      O p t i m u m T e m p (a)  Embryo motion     Upper             AT

Event                 Temp  Range MWAT           Survival Time                                       Location                             Reference

spawning              10    116                                                                                                           Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                          Cravens et al 1983
                                                 >7                                                  Lab; L. Superior fish                This study

                                  10             15

(a) MWAT - maximum weekly average temperature during IIK~I~I of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning,
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment lamperalures.
SPECIES: Oncorhynchus kisutch (coho salmon)

                                                                                                                                              THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-         Upper    Lower    log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation         Incip.   Incip.                                                  tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-            Lethal   a + b (temp)  -Dat-a L-imit-s - s u r e        Time    (Max)
(mm)                          son  Lethal    Temp                   Upper Lower Temp                 Win)
                                   Temp               a  b                                                                                    Location             Reference

fry                                 25.1                                                                                                      Lab                  Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                              Lab, B.C.            Brown 1974
478; fry     5                      22.9     0.2      21.3050-0.7970 24 23 24                        150                                      Lab, B.C.            Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                              Lab, B.C.            Brown 1974
478; fry     10                     23.7 1.7          19.5721-0.6820 26  24.5 26                     90                                       Lab, B.C.            Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                              Lab, B.C.            Brown 1974
478; fry     15                     24.3     3.5      20.4066-0.6858 27  24.5 26.5                   155                                      Lab                  Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                                   Houston 1982
478; fry     20                     25       4.5      20.4022-0.6713 27.5 25.5 26.5 90                                                        Lab (18C/h)          Houston 1982

478; fry     23                     25       6.4      18.9736-0.6013 27.5 25 27                      500                                      Lab (18Uh)           Becker and Genoway 1979

fingerling   2.6                             -0.1                                                            26.5                             Lab (18Cih)          Becker and Genoway 1979

             4.8                             -0.1                                                                                             Lab (18Uh)           Becker and Genoway 1979

adult        17                     25                                                                                                        Lab (18Clh)          Backer and Genoway 1979

90-130;                                                                                                                                       Lab (18Uh)           Becker and Genoway 1979
                                                                                                                                              Lab
juvenile     5                                                                                               25.3                                                  Becker and Genoway 1979
                                                                                                                                                                   Cherry et al 1982
90-130;

juvenile     10                                                                                              30.1

90-l 30;

juvenile     15                                                                                              28.7

90-130;

juvenile     20                                                                                              35.1

90-130;

juvenile5                                                                                                    27.7

90-130;

juvenile     15                                                                                                                         29.6
                                    21
             12

SPECIES: Oncorhynchus kisutch (coho salmon)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final       Lower           Acclimation Acclimation             PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                              Temperature Time                    Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                                                                 Reference

                                             12-14                                                                 Lab                                             Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                   Lab                                             Coutant 1977a
adult        SP                              11.4                                                                  L. Michigan                                     Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                                                                   Jobling 1981
adult                                        16.6                                                                  Lab                                             Brown 1974
                                                                                                                   Granby Res., Colo.                              Brown 1974
                                             15/13                                                                 Point Beach, L. Michigan                        Michaud 1981
                                                                                                                   Lab                                             Cherry et al 1982
                                             20                                                                    Lab                                             Cherry et al 1982
                                                                                                                   Lab                                             Cherry et al 1982
                             >23.9

                             17              8/12-16     3

                                             15.6

                             21              14.3        6               12

                             21              16.6        12              18
SPEClES: Oncorhynchus kisutch (coho salmon)

Size or Age  Optimum                 (a)   (b)   No Growth Limits                                         GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
Imml         "C       Rmgo M W A T         ST
                                          Max    Upper   Lower      Location                              ftduence

             14.8                                                   Lab                                   Jobling 1981
                                                                                                          EPA 1974
                             18              24                                                           Brown 1974
                                                                                                          Brown 1974
                      14-17                                         Field in late summer                  Brown 1974

             17                                                     Lab

                                                         <10        L. Michigan

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Oncorhynchus kisutch (coho salmon)

                                                                                                          SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                              (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                              ST Max             hit       Id                  Ml
             mation                                                 Lethrl    Lethal              Median
             Temp                                for     Accli-     Limit     Limit       Median  Lethal
                                                                              Lower       Lethal  Final
                      O p t i m u m T e m p lab  E m b r y o madon  Upper                 AT

Event                 Temp   Range MWAT          Survival Time                                            Location                      Reference

hatching              10.7                                                                                Calif.                        Scott and Crossman 1973
 (38d)                                                                                                    Calif.                        Scott and Crossman 1973
 (48d)                8.9                                                                                 Lab (physiological stress)    Spotila et al 1979
heat shock 10                                                                                                                           EPA 1974
                                                         3 min                            Si 10           Sand Ck., Oregon
spawning                                                                                                  Columbia R.,                  Brown 1974
 migration                                   10  13                                       -4.5            Lab                           Brown 1974
                                                                                          -8              Lab                           Edsall and Yocum 1972
spawning              <10    4.4-11.1                                                     - 12.5           Lab                          Edsall and Yocum 1972
cold shock 5                                                                              -15              Lab                          Edsall and Yocum 1972
cold shock 10                4.4-7.7                                                                                                    Edsall and Yocum 1972
cold shock 15
cold shock 20

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to OptimUm, or middle of range of spawning temperatures
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1948).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
                                                                                                                        THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                Accli-  Accli-         Upper     Lower            log time =                Expo-  Resis-     Critical
                mation  mation         Incip.    Incip.                                     sure   tance      Thermal
   Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-  Lethal     Lethal           a + b (temp) Data Limits   Temp  Time       (Max)
   (mm)                          son  Temp       Temp                                              (Min)
                                                                  a  -- b Upper      Lower                              Location             Reference

   young                              24.4                                                                                                   Scott and Crossman 1973
                                      24.8                                                                                                   Jobling 1981
                                                                                                                                             Brown 1974
   449g;                                                                                                                                     Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                             Brown 1974
   juvenile     5                     22.2       0                17.7887-0.6623 24  22.5                               Lab, Wash.           Brown 1974
                                                                                                                        Lab, Wash.           Brown 1974
   449g;                                                                                                                Lab, Wash.
                                                                                                                        Lab, Wash.
   juvenile     10                    23.4       3.1              14.7319-0.4988 26.5 23.5                              Lab, Wash.

   449g;

   juvenile     15                    24.4       4.1              15.8799-0.5210 27.5 24.5

   449g;

   juvenile     20                    24.8       4.7              19.3821-0.6378 27.5 24.5

   449g;

   juvenile     23                    24.8       6.7              20.0020-0.6496 26.5 24.5

2  SPECIES: Oncorhynchus nerka (kokanee salmon)

   Size or Age  Season Day or Upper              Final               Lower           Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
   (mm)                        Night Avoidance                                       Temperature Time         Location
                                                 Preferendum Avoidance                                                                       Reference

   adult                                               1o-15                                                  Horsetooth Res., Colo.         Scott and Crossman 1973
   young                                               12-14                                                  Okanagan R., Wash.             Scott and Crossman 1973
   small                                               10                                                     Lab                            Carlander 1969
                                                       10.6-12.8                                                                             Coutant 1977a
                                21                                                                                                           Coutant 1977a
                                                       14.5                                                                                  Coutant 1977a
SPECIES: Oncorhynchus nerka (kokanee salmon)

                                                (b)                                                           GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age  Optimum        (a)                 ST   No Growth Limits                                         Reference
(mm)         "C
                      Range MWAT Max                 Upper   Lower         Location                           Jobling 1981
                                                                                                              Magnuson et al 1979
juvenile     15                                                                                               Cravens et al 1983
                                                                                                              This study
                                                     24      -cl

                      5-15

                            18.3                23

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Oncorhynchus nerka (kokanee salmon)

                                                                                                              SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season   Optimum Temp (a)                   (b)       Accli-  (4        Id       Median  (d)
             and/or                                      ST Max    mation  Lethal    Lethal   Lethal  Median
Event        Accli-   Temp  Range MWAT                   for       Time    Limit     Limit   AT       Lethal  Location                  Reference
             mation                                      Embryo                      Lower            Final
             Temp                                        Survival          Upper

spawning                                5-10.5                                                                Lab                       Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching                                                                                                      Lab
                      4                                                                                       Lab; decreasing temp.     Scott and Crossman 1973
  (140d)              15                                                                                      Calif                     Scott and Crossman 1973
  (48d)                                                                                                                                 Scott and Crossman 1973
(70-824)                                13-5.1                                                                Lab                       Carlander 1969
spawning                               7-12                                                                                             Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                                        Beltz et al 1974
egg dev.                                                                   15.5                                                         This study

                                                                           13.5      5.1

                                                8.5      12

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES Oncorhynchus tshawytscha (chinook salmon)

             Accli-  Accli-  Upper           Lower               log time =                             Expo-  Resis-  Critical  THERMAL TOLERANCES:
             mation          Incip.          Incip.                                                     sure   tance   Thermal   Location
             Temp                            Lethal                           Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
Size or Age          mation Sea- Lethal      Temp                a + b hemp1                                   (Min)
(mm)
                     Time s o n T e m p                          a  b                                                                                 Reference

                             25.1                                                                                                                     Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                                      Brown 1974
444; fry     5               21.5                                9.3155-0.3107 25   22.5                                         Lab, Wash.           Brown 1974
444; fry     10                                                                                                                  Lab, Wash.           Brown 1974
444; fry     15              24.3            0.8                 16.4595-0.5575 26.5 24.5                                                             Brown 1974
444; fry     20                                                                                                                                       Brown 1974
444; fry     24              25              2.5                 16.4454-0.5364 27  25.5                                         Lab, Wash.           Spotila et al 1979
1-2 yr       17                                                                                                                                       Houston 1982
adult        18-19           25.1            4.5                 22.9065-0.7611 27.5 25                                          Lab, Wash.

                             25.1            7.4                 18.9940-0.5992 27.5 25                                          Lab, Wash.

                             22                                                                                        25.1      Lab (UUILT)

                             21-22

             SPECIES: Oncorhynchus tshawytscha (chinook salmon)
!G

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final                  Lower           Acclimation Acclimation            PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                         Temperature Time                   Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                                                    Reference

small                                              12-14                                                               Lab                            Scott and Crossman 1973
adult                                              11.7                                                                L. Michigan                    Coutant 1977a
                                                   17.3                                                                Thermal discharge              Coutant 1977a
                             23.3                                                                                      L. Michigan                    Spigarelli and Smith 1976
                                                                                                                       (max. body temp)
SPECIES: Oncorhynchus tshawytscha [chinook salmon)

                                    (b)                                                                     GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age  Optimum        (a)     ST              No Growth Limits                                        Reference
(mm)         "C
                      Range MWAT Max                Upper   Lower     Location                              Jobling 1981
                                                                                                            Cravens et al 1983
             15.5                                                                                           Beltz et al 1974
                                                                                                            This study
             <12                                                      Lab . .
                                                                      Lab
fingerling   14.4

                            18.7 20

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature-optimum temp for growth),
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Oncorhynchus tshawytscha (chinook salmon)

                                                                                                       SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                 (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                 ST Max            (c)       (4             (d)
             mation                                                   Lethal    lethal Median  Median
             Temp                                   for     Accli-    Limit     Limit Lethal   Lethal
                                                                                L o w e r AT   Final
                      Optimum Temp  tab             Embryo mation     Upper
                                    MWAT
Event                 Temp  Range                   Survival Time                                      Location                         Reference

cold shock 7                                                                    0    -6                Lab                              Edsall and Yocum 1972
cold shock 10                                                                                                                           Edsall and Yocum 1972
cold shock 15                                                                        -9                Lab                              Edsall and Yocum 1972
cold shock 20                                                                                                                           Edsall and Yocum 1972
                                                                                     -12.5             Lab                              Cravens et al 1983
                                                                                                                                        Beltz et al 1977
                                                                                     -15               Lab

                                                    10                                                 Lab

egg dev.              11.1                                            14.9      5.1                    Lab

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.

(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (19461.
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
    SPECIES: Salmo gairdneri (rainbow trout)

                                                                                                                           THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                                 Upper               Lower                                               Resis-
                                                     Incip.                                              tance
                 Accli-  Accli-  Incip.              Lethal  log time =                           Expo-  Time    Critical
                 mation                              Temp                   Data Limits sure             (Min)   Thermal
    Size or Age  Temp    mation Sea- Lethal                  a + b !teryq)  U p p e r L o w e r Tsrnr~           (Max)
    (mm)
                         Time s o n T e m p                  a  h                                                          Location                   Reference

    fingerling   11                      24                                                                      >17.5     Lab (Kamloops trout)       Scott and Crossman 1973
    adult        6.3             F                                                                                         Lab                        Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
    50-100 FL;
                 12-24                   25                                                                                Lab                        Cherry et al 1977
      yOUIlg                             26.5
                                          26
                                          26.3                                                                                                        Jobling 1981

                                          23.3-25.6                                                                                                   Jobling 1981

                                          25-26                                                                                                       Jobling 1981
                                          21-22
                                          23.7                                      30                   0.55              Lab (loss of equilibrium)  Spotila et al 1979
                                          24.2
                                          25.2                                      28                   2                 Lab (loss of equilibrium)  Spotila et al 1979
                                          25.7
    yearling     20                       26.2               14.6405-0.4470 29 27                                          Lab (L. Superior, softwater) Brown 1974
                                          26.2
    yearling     20                       25.6               15.0392-0.4561 29  27                                         Lab (L. Superior, hardwater) Brown 1974
                                          25.7
    yearling     20                                          15.1473-0.4683 29  27                                         Lab (L. Superior, softwater) Brown 1974

    yearling     20                                          12.8718-O 3837 29  27                                         Lab (L. Superior, hardwater) Brown 1974

WI  80-130;

    young                                                                                                        26.7                                 Brown 1974

    37-92 TL;

    juvenile     15                                                                                                        Great Lakes                Brown 1974

    adult        16-19                                                                                                     Lab                        Brown 1974

    fingerling   5                                                                                                                                    Houston 1982

    fingerling   9                                                                                                                                    Houston 1982

    fingerling   13                                                                                                                                   Houston 1982

    fingerling   17                                                                                                                                   Houston 1982

    fingerling   21                                                                                                                                   Houston 1982

    fingerling   24.5                                                                                            26.2                                 Houston 1982

    fingerling   16                                                                                                                                   Houston 1982

    juvenile                                                                                                               Lab mean 24-h (TL50)       Hokanson et al 1977

    150-200 FL; 10                                                                                               28.5      Lab (Arizona; 0.02 C/min)  Lee and Rinne 1980

    150-200 FL: 20                                                                                               29.4      Lab (Arizona; 0.02 C/min)  Lee and Rinne 1980
SPECIES: Salmo gairdneri (rainbow trout)

Size or Age          Season Day or Upper            Final      Lower                 Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                              Night Avoidance                                    Temper&ure T i m e       Location
                                                    P r e f e r e n d u m hvaidance                                                        Reference
fry,                              D/N
                                  D/N               13-15                            10.6/12.7                Lab                           Talmage and Coutant 1980
fingerlings                                         121                                                       Horsetooth Res., Colo.       Talmage and Coutant 1980
                                               22   18.9-21.7                        12                                                    Coutant 1977a
adult                                                                                15                       Lab
red                                             19  22                               18                                                    Coutant 1977a
fingerlings                                     18                                   21                       Lab
starved                                         21  18                               24                       Lab                          Coutant 1977a
fingerlings                                     21                                                            Lab                          Coutant 1977a
fingerlings                                     27  18-19      14                                             L. Michigan                  Coutant 1977a
adult                                           26                                                            Lab                          Coutant 1977a
adult                                               13                                                                                     Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                              Lab (rising water temp.)
50-100 FL;                                          16.5                                                                                   Cherry et al 1977
 vouw                                                                                                         Lab (rising water temp.)
                                                    18         13                                                                          Cherry et al 1977
50-100 FL;                                                                                                    Lab (rising water temp.)
 ww                                                 14.1       6                                                                           Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                              Lab (rising water temp.)
W-100 FL;                                           17.1       9                                                                           Cherry et al 1977
 vw                                                                                                           Lab (rising water temp.)
                                                    18.6       12                                                                          Cherry et al 1977
50-100 FL;                                                                                                    Lab (rising water temp.)
 young                                              20.2       12                                                                          Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                                                           Jobling 1981
50-100 FL;                                          22.2       15                                                                          Jobling 1981
 young                                                                                                                                     Jobling 1981
                                                    19.2                                                                                    Spotila et al 1979
50-100 FL;                                          16                                                                                      Spotila et al 1979
 young                                                                                                                                      Spotila et al 1979
                                                    11.3                                                                                    Spotila et al 1979
adult                                               14                                                                                      Spotila et al 1979
                                                    15.8                                                                                    Brown 1974
                                                    17.5                             10                       Lab                           Spigarelli and Smith 1976
                                                    22
                                                    11.6                             15                       Lab                           McCauley and Huggins 1976
                                                    12.6                                                                                   Spigarelli and Thommes 1979
                                                    S-17                             20                       Lab
                                                                                                                                           Spigarelli and Thommes 1979
                                                                                     6                        Lab
                                                                                                                                           Spigarelli and Thommes 1979
                                                                                     9                        Lab                          Kwain and McCauley 1978
                                                                                                                                           Kwain and McCauley 1978
                                                                                                              Lab                          Kwain and McCauley 1978
                                                                                                                                           Kwain and McCauley 1978
                     23.5                                                                                     Thermal discharge            Kwain and McCauley 1978

                     23-24                                                                                    L. Michigan (max body temp)
                     20-21
       150-250g;     22                             16.7                                                      Lab
      yearlings                                     19                                                        Point Beach NGS
      small; <1kg
                                                    15                                                        discharge L. Michigan
      large; >2.5kg                                                                                           Point Beach NGS
                                                    19
       1-2.5 kg                                     17-21                                                     discharge L. Michigan
<6 months                                           13                                                        Pt. Beach NGS, L. Mich.
                                                    17-19
       >1 year                                      14-16.8                                                   Lab
       <6 months                                    11.4-12.7                                                 Lab
      7-11 months                                                                                             Lab
       1 year
     SPECIES: Salmo gairdneri (rainbow trout)

                                                  (b)                                                            GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                                 Reference
     Size or Age   Optimum              (a)       ST   No Growth Limits
     (mm)          "C
                            Range       MWAT Max       Upper       Lower       Location

     juvenile      17.2                 19        24                                                             Jobling, 1981
     fingerling    16.5                                                                                          Jobling, 1981
     juvenile      17                                  >20         <10                                           Jobling, 1981
                   12                                                                                            Spotila et al 1979
                   16.8                                24                                                        McCauley and Casselman 1980
                                                                                                                 EPA 1974
                   12.8                                22          8           Lab                               Brown 1974
                                                                                                                 Brown 1974
                   17-18.6                                                                                       Hokansonet al 1977
                                                                                                                 Hokanson et al 1977
                                        17        23

     SPECIES: Salmo gairdneri (rainbow trout)

                                                                                                            SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                  Season                                   (b)

                  and/or                                   ST Max              (c)       (c)        Ml

CJI               Accli-                                   for        Accli-   Lethal Lethal Median Median

w                 mation    Optimum Temp (a)               Embryo mation Limit Limit Lethal Lethal

     Event        Temp      Temp        Range M W A T S u r v i v a l T i m e  Upper L o w e r A T  Final   Location                     Reference

     spawning                           1o-15.5                                                                                          Scott and Crossman 1973

     hatching

     (18-101d)              7-10        3.2-15.5           <15                 >15       3                                               Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                         Crippen and Fahmy 1981
     heat shock 15                                                             >29            + 14          Lab                          Crippen and Fahmy 1981(d)
                                                                                              + 19.5        Lab (onshore discharge)      Crippen and Fahmy 1981(d)
     heat shock 9.7                                                                           + 20.6        Lab (tempering discharge)    Crippen and Fahmy 1981(d)
                                                                                              +18.7         Lab (offshore discharge)     EPA 1974
     heat shock 9.7                                                                                                                      Brown 1974
                                                                                              +11.1         Bothwells Ck, Ont.           Brown 1974
     heat shock 9.7                                                                           + 1 9 29      Finger Lakes, N.Y.           Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                         Brown 1974
                                                  9        13                                               Lab                          Brown 1974
                                                                                                            Lab (simulated entrainment)  Brown 1974
     spawning               6-8         0.3-10                                                              Lab                          Moore 1979
                                                                                                                                         Cravens et al 1983
     spawning                           5.5-13

     egg dev.               5-7

     egg dev.               5-6-12.2    1.7-16.1

     larval dev.            12.8-l 8.9

     heat shock 12.2

     heat shock 10

     heat shock 6                                                              24-30
                                                                               36
     heat shock

     (egg)        10                                                                                        Lab                          Thorgaard et al 1981

     (a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
     (b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
     (c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
     (d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
   SPECIES: Salmo trutta (brown trout)

                                                                                                                                    THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                 Accli-  Accli-         Upper     Lower           log time =                               Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                 mation                 Incip.    Incip.                         Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
                 Temp                             Lethal                         Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
   Size or Age           mation Sea- Lethal       Temp            a -t b (temp)                                   (Min)
   (mm)
                         Time s o n T e m p                       a      b                                                          Location                   Reference

   50.1OOFL;     12-24                  23                                                                                          Lab                        Cherry et al 1977
   young
                 14-18                  26.4                                                                                                                   Jobling 1981
   adult         26                                                                                                                                            Spotila et al 1979
   adult         5-6                                                                                                      25        Lab (death point)          Spotila et al 1979
   fry           20                                                                                                                                            Spotila et al 1979
   fry           6                                                                                                        26        Lab (death point)          Spotila et al 1979
   newly                                                                                                                                                       Brown 1974
   hatched fry   23                                                                                                       22.5      Lab (death point)

                                                                                                                          23        Lab (death point)

                                        22                        12.7756-0.4010 28  20                                             Lab; England

                                        24.7                                                                                        Lab                        Brown 1974

                                        25.3                                                                              28.3      N.Y. (limiting temp)       Brown 1974

                                                                                         26.8                     1440              Lab                        Brown 1974

                                                                                         27.8                     720               Lab                        Brown 1974

   150-200TL;    10                                                                                                       29        Lab (Arizona; 0.02 c/min)  Lee and Rinne 1980

                 20                                                                                                       30        Lab (Arizona; 0.02 c/min)  Lee and Rinne 1980

   SPECIES: Salmo trutta (brown trout)

E                                                                                                                             PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:

   Size or Age   Season Day or Upper              Final              Lower           Acclimation Acclimation
   (mm)                      N i g h t Avoidance                                     Temperature Time
                                                  Preferendum Avoidance                                                       Location                         Reference

                                                  18.3-23.9                                                                                                    Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                                               Coutant 1977a
                                                  12                                                                          L. Oredon, France                Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                              Lab                              Coutant 1977a
                                 20                                                                                           Lab                              Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                              L. Michigan                      Cherry et al 1977
   vowi                                           17.6                                                                        Lab (rising water temps)
   adult                                                                                                                                                       Cherry et al 1977
   50-100FL;                                      13.8                                                                        Lab (rising water temps)
   vouw                                                                                                                                                        Cherry et al 1977
   50-100FL;                     15               11.7               6               12                                       Lab (rising water temps)
   vow                                                                                                                                                         Cherry et al 1977
   50-100FL;                     18               15.5               9               15                                       Lab (rising water temps)
   vow                                                                                                                                                         Cherry et al 1977
   50-100FL;                     21               17.9               12              18                                       Lab (rising water temps)
   ww                                                                                                                                                          Cherry et al 1977
   50-100FL;                     24               18.8               15              21                                       Lab (rising water temps)
   vow                                                                                                                                                         Jobling 1981
   50-100FL;                     25               18.5               17              23                                       L. Michigan thermal discharge    Spotila et al 1979
   vow                                                                                                                        L. Michigan thermal discharge    Brown 1974
                                                  17.4                                                                        L. Michigan thermal discharge    Brown 1974
   44g; small                                                                                                                                                  Spigarelli and Smith 1976
   30009; large                                        12.2                                                                    (max body temp)
                                                       12.4-17.6                                                              L. Michigan thermal discharge    Harrelson et al 1984
                                                       19.9
                                                       16.9
                                 21.3

                                                  12-16
SPECIES: Salmo trutta (brown trout)

                                               (b)                                                       GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age  Optimum                 (a)       ST    No Growth Limits                                    Reference
(mm)         "C
                      Range          MWAT Max        Upper   Lower      Location                         Jobling 1981
                                                                                                         Jobling 1981
             10                                                                                          Jobling 1981
                                                                                                         Jobling 1981
             15.5                                                                                        McCauley and Casselman 1980
                                                                                                         Brown 1974
             12                                                                                          Brown 1974
                                                                                                         This study
             12.8

juvenile     12.6

                      7-19

                                                     <29.1   5

                                     19.1      21

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Salmo trutta (brown trout)

                                                                                                         SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                  (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                  ST Max             (c)       (d             (d)
             mation                                                     Lethal    Lethal Median  Median
             Temp                                    for        Accli-  Limit     Limit Lethal   Lethal
                                                                                  L o w e r AT   Final
                      O p t i m u m T e m p (a)      Embryo mation      Upper

Event                 Temp           Range MWAT      Survival Time                                       Location                         Reference

spawning                             6.7-8.9                                                             S.E. Ontario                     Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                         Lab                              Brown 1974
incubation                                     12.8                                                                                       Brown 1974
(34-148d)                                                                                                streams SW Ontario
                                     1.9-11.2                           27                                                                Cravens et al 1983
embryo                                                                                                                                    Witzel and MacCrimmon 1983
spawning                                                                15                                                                This study

                                     4-l 1

                                               7.5   11.2

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
   SPECIES: Salvelinus fontinalis (brook trout)

                                                                                                                         THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                Accli- Accli-  Upper             Lower   log time =                             Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                               Incip.            Incip.                Data Limits sure                tance   Thermal
                                                 Lethal                Upper Lower Temp                Time    (Max)
   Size or Age  mation mation Sea- Lethal        Temp    a + b (temp)                                  (Min)
   (mm)
                Temp Time s o n T e m p                  a  b                                                            Location                 Reference

   50-I00FL;    12-24          24                                                                                        Lab                      Cherry et al 1977
   young                                                                                                                                          Jobling 1981
                                                                                                                         Lab, Ontario             Jobling 1981
                               25.3                                                                                      Lab, Ontario             Brown 1974
                                                                                                                         Lab, Ontario
                               20.1                                                                                      Lab, Ontario             Brown 1974
                                                                                                                         Lab, Ontario
   2.259;       3              23.5                      13.4325-0.4556 26  23.5 26                    40                Lab, Ontario             Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                  Brown 1974
   yearling                                                                                                                                       Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                  Brown 1974
   2-259;       11             24.6                      14.6256-0.4728 28 25

   yearling

   2-259;       15             25                        15.1846-0.4833 28.5 25.5 27.5                 30

   yearling

   2-25;        20             25.3                      15.0331-0.4661 29  25.5

   yearling

   2-259;       22             25.5                      17.1967-0.5367 29  26.5

   yearling

   2-259;       24             25.5                      17.8467-0.5507 30  25.5 28.5                  40

z  yearling

   2-259;       25             25.5                      17.8467-0.5567 29  26                                           Lab, Ontario             Brown 1974

   yearling

   eggs                        12.7                                                                                      Lab, Ontario             Brown 1974

   newly        12             20.4                                                                                      Lab, Ontario             Brown 1974

   hatched

   swim-up      12             24.3                                                                            24.5      Lab, Ontario             Brown 1974

                                                                                                               25.3      Lab, (UUILT,O)           Brown 1974

   larvae                      20.1                                                                                                               Houston 1982

   juvenile     13             24                                                                                        Lab                      Houston 1982

                16             24.9                                                                                      Lab                      Houston 1982

                19             25.8                                                                                      Lab                      Houston 1982

   150-200FL;   10                                                                                             28.7      Lab (Arizona; 0.02 c/m)  Lee and Rinne 1980

   150-200FL;   20                                                                                             29.8      Lab (Arizona; 0.02 c/m)  Lee and Rinne 1980
SPECIES: Salvelinus fontinalis (brook trout)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper              Final    Lower         Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                          Temperature Time         Location
                                              Preferendum Avoidance                                                     Reference

             Su                               <20                                                                       Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                        Coutant 1977a
                                              19                                              field                     Coutant 1977a
                                                                                              Moosehead L., Me.         Coutant 1977a
                                              20.3                                            Redrock L., Ontario       Coutant 1977a
                                                                                              field                     Coutant 1977a
                                              20                                              S. Ont. streams           Coutant 1977a
                                                                                              L. Michigan               Coutant 1977a
                 20                                                                           Lab                       Coutant 1977a
                                                                                              Lab                       Coutant 1977a
adult                                         15.7                                            Lab                       Coutant 1977a
                                                                                              Lab (fed)                 Coutant 1977a
adult                                         14.8                                            Lab                       Coutant 1977a
                                                                                              Lab (starved)             Coutant 1977a
small                                         16                                              Lab                       Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                              Lab (rising water temps)
small        F   20                           16                                                                        Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                              Lab (rising water temps)
small        w                                8-12                                                                      Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                              Lab (rising water temps)
small                                         18                                                                        Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                              Lab (rising water temps)
                 20                           18       14                                                               Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                              Lab (rising water temps)
small                                         16                                                                        Cherry et al 1977
young                                                                                         Lab (rising water temps)
50-100FL;                                     16                                                                        Jobling 1981
VOU"CJ                                                                                        Lab                       Brown 1974
50-100FL;        15                           13.7     6             12                       Lakes N.S.                Brown 1974
young                                                                                         Lab                       Talmage and Coutant 1980
50-100FL;        18                           15.2     9             15                       Lab                       Talmage and Coutant 1980

vouw             21                           17.2     15            18
50-100FL;
                 24                           18.3     15            21
vow3
50-100FL;        26                           19.0     18            24
young
50-100FL;                                     15.5
young

                                              14

fry                                           10                     4

fry              21                                    7             10.6-12.7
fingerlings                                                          12.1
                                              9-l 1.5

                                              17.5
SPECIES: Salvelinus fontinalis (brook trout)

                                                    (b)                                                          GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age        Optimum                (a)       ST   No Growth Limits                                        Reference
(mm)               "C
                               Range MWAT Max            Upper  Lower      Location                              Jobling 1981
                                                                                                                 Jobling 1981
                   13                                                                                            Jobling 1981
                                                                                                                 EPA 1974
                   14                                                                                            Brown 1974
                                                                                                                 Brown 1974
                   16.1

                                          19        23

                   15.4        9.8-l 7.9                 >20    8          Lab

                   IO-IS

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature-optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Salvelinus fontinalis (brook trout)

                                                                                                                 SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

cn                 Season   O p t i m u m T e m p (a)    (b)       Accli-  (c)       (c)                 (d)
a3                 and/or                                ST Max    mation  Lethal    Lethal M e d i a n  Median
                   Accli-   Temp          Range MWAT     for       Time    Limit     Limit Lethal        Lethal  Location               Reference
            Event  mation                                Embryo                      Lower AT            Final
                   Temp                                  Survival          Upper

hatching                                  1 o-5                                                                                         Scott and Crossman 1973

(50-100d)                                                                  11.7                                                         Scott and Crossman 1973
eggs                                                                                                                                    EPA 1974
                                                         13                                                                             Brown 1974
                                                    9                                                                                   Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                        Brown 1974
spawning                    10.7                                                                                 Minn.
                                                                                                                 Lab                    Brown 1974
spawning                                  2.2-11.7                                                                                      Witzel and MacCrimmon 1983
                                                                                                                 SW Ont. streams
incubation                                1.5-14.8

(15-28d)

hatching                    6                            14.8              18

spawning                                  4-13

(a) MWAT-c maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Salvelinus namaycush (lake trout)

                                                                                                                        THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-         Upper    Lower     log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation         Incip.   Incip.                  Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-            Lethal    a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                          son  Lethal    Temp                                                     (Min)
                                   Temp                a       b                                                        Location              Reference

                                   25.1                                                                                                         Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                                Brown 1974
27.7/82.8g; a                      22.7                14.4820-0.5 142 26  23                                           Hatcheries, Ont.        Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                Brown 1974
1-2 yr                                                                                                                  Hatcheries, Ont.
                                                                                                                        Hatcheries, Ont.      Reference
             15                    23.5                14.5123-0.4866 27 24

             20                    23.5                17.3684-0.5818 27   24

SPECIES: Salvelinus namaycush (lake trout)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final        Lower            Acclimation Acclimation            PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                Temperature Time                   Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance

                                             10                                                                                               Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                              Coutant 1977a
                                             14                                                               White L., Ont.                  Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                              Moosehead, L., Me.              Coutant 1977a
                             13                                                                               Lac La Ronge, Sask.             Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                              Louisa and Redrock L., Ontario  Coutant 1977a
                             11                                                                               Cayuga L., N.Y.                 Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                              Lab                             Coutant 1977a
                                             1O                                                               Lab                             Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                              L. Michigan                     Spotila et al 1979
                                             15.5                                                                                             Brown 1974
                                                                                                              L. Superior                     Brown 1974
yearling                     15              11.7                                                             L. Superior                     Brown 1974
                                                                                                              L. Michigan                     Brown 1974
young                        14              11.5                                                             field                           Brown 1974
adult                                                                                                         L. Ontario                      Michaud 1981
                                             11.8                                                             Point Beach, L. Michigan        Talmage and Coutant 1980
                                                                                                              Lab
                                             12                                                                                               Cravens et al 1983
                                                                                                              L. Michigan                     Peck 1982
YOY                          17.2                         5.6                                                 L. Superior

1-2 yrs                      11.7                         3.9

juvenile     SU                              7.2-12.1

                             15.5                         a

                             18.2            7.2-12.8

                             >14             14           <1

fry                                          9-11.5                        10.6-12.7
fingerlings                                                                1-17
adult                        14                           4
YOY
                             15              7-14
SPECIES: Salvelinus namaycush (lake trout)

                                            bl                                                                GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age  Optimum           (a)          ST    No Growth Limits                                            Reference
(mm)         "C
                      Range    MWAT Max           Upper           Lower   Location                            Leidy and Jenkins 1977
                                                                                                              Leidy and Jenkins 1977
yearling     11.7                                                                                             Leidy and Jenkins 1977
                                                                                                              This study
1-2 yrs      16.5

                      4-18                                                Lake Louisa, Ont.; Cayuga L., N.Y.

                               19.4         21.5

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Salvelinus namaycush (lake trout)

                                                                                                              SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

Event        Season   Optimum  Temp (a)           (b)             Accli-  (4        (c)     Median  (d)       Location                    Reference
             and/or   Temp     Range MWAT         ST Max          mation  Lethal    Lethal  Lethal  Median
             Accli-                               for             Time    Limit     Limit   ST      Lethal
             mation                               Embryo                            Lower           Final
             Temp                                 Survival                Upper

spawning                       8.9-13.9                                   14.8              +6                Algonquin Pk., Ontario      Scott and Crossman 1973
incubation                     0.3-1.0                                                                        Lab                         Scott and Crossman 1973
(15-21 wk)                                                                                                    L. Simcoe, Ontario
heat shock 8.8                 11-14                                                                                                      Wyman 1981
spawning                                    a.9                                                               Lab                         Brown 1974
                                                                                                              L. Simcoe, Ontario          Brown 1974
incubation                     1.8-10                                                                         L. Simcoe, Ontario
(50-162d)                                                   <10                                                                           Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                          Brown 1974
spawning                       7.1-14.4                                                                                                   MacLean et al 1981
spawning                       5.5-10                                                                                                     MacLean et al 1981
                                                                                                                                          This study
                                                            14.4

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Salvelinus fontinalis x S. namaycush (splake)

                                                                                                                          THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                Accli-  Accli-         Upper     Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                mation  mation         Incip.    Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age     Temp    Time    Sea-  Lethal     Lethal  a t b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                             son  Temp       Temp                                                   (Min)
                                                         a       b                                                        Location                   Reference

                5                     23.5-25.5                                                                           Lab                        Crippen and Fahmy 1981
                10                    25.5-26.7
                20.8                  27.5-28.7                                                                           Lab, Ontario               Brown 1974
                                      23.5-24                                                                             Lab, Ontario               Brown 1974
juvenile        10                                       13.2634-0.4381 26.5 24                                           Lab, Ontario               Brown 1974
                                      24-24.5
                15                                       16.9596-0.5540 28   24.5

                20                                       19.4449-0.6342 28   24.5

SPECIES: Salvelinus fontinalis x S. namaycush (splake)

Size or Age     Season Day or Upper              Final        Lower          Acclimation Acclimation            PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                         Night Avoidance                                 Temperature Time                   Location
                                                 Preferendum Avoidance                                                                               Reference

cn                                               13.1                        10.6-12.7                          Jack and Sproule L., Ont.            Coutant 1977a
w                                                12                                                             Lab                                  Coutant 1977a
                                                 9-11.5                                                         Lab                                  Talmage and Coutant 1980
         young
         fry

SPECIES: Salvelinus fontinalis x S. namaycush (splake)

                                                                                                                          SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                Season                                   (b)
                and/or
                Accli-                                   ST Max              (c)        (c)                     (4
                mation                                                       Lethal     Lethal Median           Median
                Temp                                     for         Accli-  Limit      Limit Lethal            Lethal
                                                                                        L o w e r AT            Final
                        Optimum       Temp (a)           Embryo mation       Upper
                        Temp          Range MWAT
Event                                                    Survival Time                                                    Location                   Reference

heat shock 3                                                                                            20.5              Lab (onshore discharge)    Crippen and Fahmy 1981 (d)

heat shock 3                                                                                            22.1              Lab (tempering discharge)  Crippen and Fahmy 1981 (d)

heat shock 3                                                                                            22.4              Lab (offshore discharge)   Crippen and Fahmy 1981 (d)

hatching        8.8                                                          14.8                       +6                Lab                        W yman 1981

eggs                                                                                                    +10               Lab (fall spawned)         Griffiths 1978

spawning                7.8                                                                                                                          Griffiths 1980

eggs                                                                                                    +7.8              Lab (+ ambient; TL50)      Griffiths 1980

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures,
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
                                          Upper        Lower                                          Resis-  Critical
                                           Incip.      Incip.                          Expo- tance            Thermal
                                  Sea- Lethal          Lethal                                                 (Max)
                  Accli-  Accli-  son Temp             Temp    log time =    Data Limits sure  Time
                  mation  mation
                  Temp    Time                          <0.3   a + b (temp)                                             Location        Reference
                                                        to.5
     Size or Age                                        3.0    a  b          Upper Lower Temp (Min)                     Lab             Scott and Crossman 1973
     (mm)                                               4.7                                                                             Jobling 1981
                                  26                     9.7   16.51X-0.6689 23   19                                    Lab (Mich.)     Jobling 1981
     larvae                       19.8                                                                                  Lab (Mich.)     Brown 1974
                  2       8wk     26.2                         10.2799-0.3645 24  20                                     Lab (Mich.)    Brown 1974
     juvenile                     19.7                                                                                   Lab (Mich.)     Brown 1974
      juvenile    5       4wk     21.7                         12.4993-0.4098 28  24                                     Lab (Mich.)     Brown 1974
      juvenile                    24.2                                                                                   Lab (Mich.)     Brown 1974
      juvenile    IO      2wk     26.2                         17.2967-0.5333 30  26                                     lab (Mich.)     Brown 1974
      juvenile                    25.7                                                                                   Lab (Mich.)
      juvenile    20      2wk                                  15.1204-0.4493 30  25                                     Lab (Mich.)     Brown 1974
      juvenile                                                                                                           Lab (Mich.)     Brown 1974
      juvenile    25      3wk                                                1.5 0.3                                                     Brown 1974
       juvenile                                                                                                                           Brown 1974
       juvenile   2       8wk                                                     0.5

                  5       4wk                                  2.7355 0.3381 3    0.5

                  10      2 wk                                 2.5090 0.2685 4.5  0.5

                  20      2wk                                  1.7154 0.1652 9.5 0.5

                     25   3wk

0-a
KJ

     SPECIES: Coregonus artedii (cisco, lake herring)

                     Season Day or Upper               Final      Lower           Acclimation Acclimation     PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:   Reference
                                    Night Avoidance                               Temperature Time            Location
     Size or Age                                                                                                                        Carlander 1969
     (mm)                                              Preferendum Avoidance                                                            Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                                        Coutant 1977a
     large                        15.5                 13                                                     L. Superior               Coutant 1977a
     large                        17-20                                                                       L. Nippissing, Ontario    Spotila et al 1979
                                  20                   10                                                     L. Nippissing, Ontario    Haymes 1984
                                                       7.2                                                    Cayuga L., N.Y.
                                                       13-18
                                                                                                              Atikokan GS preop., Ont.

     larval          SP
SPECIES: Coregonus artedii (cisco, lake herring)

                                           (b)                                                            GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                          Reference
Size or Age    Optimum            (a)      ST        No Growth Limits
(mm)           "C                                                                                         Jobling 1981
                           Range  MWAT Max           Upper   Lower       Location                         EPA 1974

               18.1

                                  17       25

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature optimum temp for growth),
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Coregonus artedii (cisco, lake herring)

                                                                                                          SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

               Season                                (b)
               and/or
               Accli-                                ST Max              (4        (c)            (d)
               mation                                                    Lethal    Lethal Median  Median
               Temp                                  for     Accli-      Limit     Limit Lethal   Lethal
                                                                                   L o w e r LIT  Final
                        Optimum   Temp     (a)       E m b r y o mation  Upper
                        Temp      Range      MWAT
Event                                                Survival Time                                        Location                      Reference

spawning                3.3       3.3-5                                                                      Wisc.                      Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                              Lab                       Scott and Crossman 1973
incubation              5.6
                                                                                                              Lab                       Scott and Crossman 1973
(92d)                             0.5-5.6                                                                     Great Lakes               Carlander 1969
incubation                                                                                                    L. Mendota, Wisc.         Carlander 1969

spawning                          1.0-5.0                                                                     Lab                       Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                   -6                                                   Spotila et al 1979
incubation                        2.4-3.3                                          -7                                                   Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                   -12                                                  EPA 1974
(111-125d)                                                                         -15.5                                                Cravens 1981

spawning                <3.8

larval devel.           5.6       2-8

                                                     *7

                                                  3  8

incubation              6

cold shock 7

cold shock 10

cold shock 15

cold shock 20

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures,
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(cl Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures,
SPECIES: Coregonus hoyi (bloater)

                                   Upper     Lower                                                  Resis-          THERMAL TOLERANCES:
                                             Incip.                                                 tance Critical  Location
             Accli- Accli-         Incip.    Lethal  log time =                              Expo-  Time Thermal
                                             Temp                  Data Limits sure                 (Min) (Max)
Size or Age  mation mation Sea- Lethal               a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp
(mm)
             Terni T i m e s o n T e m p             a  b                                                                                Reference

60; age 1    5                     22.2              15.8243-0.5831 26   22                                         Lab, L. Michigan     Brown 1974
                                   23.6                                                                                                  Brown 1974
60; age 1    10                    24.8              9.0700-0.2896 30    23                                         Lab, L. Michigan     Brown 1974
                                   26.2                                                                                                  Brown 1974
60; age 1    15                    26.7              17.1908-0,5707 28   24.5                                       Lab, L. Michigan     Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                         Brown 1974
60; age 1    20                    26-27             28.6392-0.9458 29   25.5                                       Lab, L. Michigan     Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                         Brown 1974
60; age 1    25                                      21.351 l-0.6594 30  26.5                                       Lab, L. Michigan     Brown 1974

60; age 1    8                                                                                      27              Lab, (death point)

60; age 1    20                                                                                     28              Lab, (death point)

60; age 1    25                                                                                     29              Lab, (death point)

age 3        8                                                                                                      Lab

SPECIES: Coregonus hoyi (bloater)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final      Lower            Acclimation Acclimation        PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                              Temperature Time               Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                                       Reference

larval                      4.8                                                                         L. Michigan                      Scott and Crossman 1973
                            >11.4                                                                       L. Michigan                      Carlander 1969
large        su             IO               3.8-7      >1.5                                            L. Michigan                      Coutant 1977a
                            16                          6                                               L. Michigan                      Cravens et al 1983
                                             11-14      5
                                             7-10                                                       L. Michigan                      Crowder and Crawford 1984
80-140 FL:                                   22
                                             7-18                                                       L. Michigan                      Crowder and Crawford 1984
juvenile     SU                              4.7                                                        L. Michigan                      Crowder and Crawford 1984
                                                                                                        L. Michigan                      Crowder and Crawford 1984
150-200 FL:                                                                                             Gt. Lakes (90-110m)              McAllister et al 1985

adult        su

YOY          F   D

YOY          F   N

larval
SPECIES: Coregonus hoyi (bloater)

                                                                                                       SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                   (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                   ST Max          (c)     (c)              (d)
             mation                                                   Lethal  Lethal Median    Median
             Temp                                     for     Accli-  Limit   Limit Lethal     Lethal
                                                                              L o w e r ;\T    Final
                     Optimum T e m p ( a )            Embryo mation   Upper

Event                Temp          Range MWAT         Survival Time                                    Location         Reference

larval dev.          <4.7                                                                              L. Michigan      Carlander 1969

SPECIES: Coregonus kiyi (kiyi)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final         Lower      Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                           Temperature Time         Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                      Reference
                                                                                                                        Carlander 1969
                                             3.7-4.6

SPECIES: Coregonus kiyi (kiyi)

                                                                                                       SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                   (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                   ST Max          (c)     (c)              (d)
             mation                                                   Lethal  Lethal Median    Median
             Temp                                     for     Accli-  Limit   Limit Lethal     Lethal
                                                                              L o w e r AT     Final
                     Optimum Temp (a)                 Embryo mation   Upper

Event                Temp          Range MWAT         Survival Time                                    Location         Reference

spawning                           1.7-3.4                                                             Great Lakes      Scott and Crossman 1973

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
    SPECIES: Coregonus reighardi (shortnose cisco)

                                                                                                                               SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                 Season                                       (b)
                 and/or
                 Accli-                                       ST Max              (c)     (c)                        k-It
                 mation                                                           Lethal  Lethal Median
                 Temp                                         for         Accli-  Limit   Limit Lethal               Median
                                                                                          L o w e r , L)T
                         Optimum Temp (a)                     Embryo mation       Upper                              Lethal

    Event                Temp          Range MWAT             Survival Time                                          Final     Location             Reference

    spawning                           3.8-4.7                                                                                 L. Michigan          Scott and Crossman 1973

    SPECIES: Coregonus clupeaformis (lake whitefish)

                                                                                                                               THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                 Accli-  Accli-         Upper         Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                 mation  mation         Incip.        Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
    Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-  Lethal         Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
    (mm)                          son  Temp           Temp                                                   (Min)
                                                              a       b                                                        Location             Reference

a                                                                                                                                                   Jobling 1981
cn                                                                                                                                                  Spotila et al 1979
    YOY                                26.6                                                                                                         Spotila et al 1979
                                       20.6                                                                                                         Spotila et al 1979
    YOY          5                     22.7                                                                                                         Spotila et al 1979
                 10                    25.8                                                                                                         Spotila et al 1979
    YOY          15                    26.6                                                                                                         Edsall and Yocum 1972
                 20                    26.6                                                                                                         Edsall and Yocum 1972
    YOY          22.5                                                                                                                               Edsall and Yocum 1972
                 17                                                                                                                                 Edsall and Yocum 1972
    YOY          17
                 17
    YOY          17

    YOY                                                                                   27.2               65                Lab (L. Michigan)
                                                                                                                               Lab (L. Michigan)
    YOY                                                                                   29.4 7                               Lab (L. Michigan)
                                                                                                                               Lab (L. Michigan)
    YOY                                                                                   31.7               0.8

    YOY                                                                                   33.7 0.1

    (a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
    (b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
    (c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
    (d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Coregonus clupeaformis (lake whitefish)

Size or Age   Season Day or Upper                  Final           Lower                       Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                         Night Avoidance                                                   Temperature Time         Location
                                                   Preferendum Avoidance                                                                           Reference

small; 2 yrs                                       12.7                                                                 Lab                        Coutant 1977a
juvenile                                           17                                                                   South Bay, Lake Huron      Coutant 1977a
larvae                                                                                                                  Ontario
12.9; larvae                                       12-16                                                                Lab                        Coutant 1977a
17.8; larvae                                                                                                            Lab                        Coutant 1977a
23.1; larvae                  17                   13.5            12                                                   Lab                        Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                        Moosehead L., Me.          Coutant 1977a
                              19                   15.5            14.5                                                 Lab                        Spotila et al 1979

                                                   11.9                                                                 Lab                        Spotila et al 1979

4.2-7.2g;                                          10                                                                   L. Erie, L. Ontario        Brown 1974
fingerling                                                                                                              (surface water temp)
1.1-1.7g;                                          17                                                                                              Haymes 1984
                                                                                                                        Atikokan GS, (preop.)      Michaud 1981
young                                              4                                                                    Point Beach, L. Michigan   Cravens et al 1983
larval                                                                                                                  L. Michigan                Ihssen et al 1981
                                                                                                                        L. Opeongo, Ontario        Ihssen et al 1981
YOY                                                17                                                                   L. Simcoe, Ontario         Ihssen et al 1981
                                                                                                                        Bay of Quinte, L. Ontario  Ihssen et al 1981
larval        Sp              14                                   8                                                    South Bay, L. Huron

                              12                   4               0

adult                                              <9                                          o-13

larval        SP                                   6.9-9.5

larval        SP                                   3.5-15

larval        SP                                   4-12

larval        SP                                   4.5-9

SPECIES: Coregonus clupeaformis (lake whitefish)

                                              (b)                                                                       GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age   Optimum             (a)         ST            No Growth Limits                                            Reference
(mm)          "C
                       Range      MWAT Max                  Upper      Lower                   Location                 Jobling 1981
                                                                                                                        Jobling 1981
              13.5                                                                                                      Brown 1974
              16.8

                                                                                          <10

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.
    SPECIES: Coregonus clupeaformis (lake whitefish)                                                                                         page 1 of 2

                                                                                                     SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                   Season                             bl
                   and/or
                   Accli-                             ST Max          (cl     (cl            (dl
                   mation                                             Lethal  Lethal Median  Median
                   Temp                               for     Accli-  Limit   Limit Lethal   Lethal
                                                                              L o w e r AT   Final
                           Optimum Temp (a)           Embryo mation   Upper

    Event                  Temp   Range MWAT          Survival Time                                  Location                  Reference

    spawning                      67.8                                                               L. Erie                   Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                     Lab                       Scott and Crossman 1973
    incubation             0.5    0.5-6.1                             10                             Bay of Quinte, L. Ont.    Carlander 1969
                                                                                                     Heming L.                 Carlander 1969
    spawning                      410                                                                field                     Carlander 1969
                                                                                                     Lab                       Carlander 1969
    spawning                      0.5-4.5
                                                                                                     L. Erie                   Carlander 1969
    larval devel.          0.5
                                                                                                     Lakes Nathalie + Helene;  Spotila et al 1979
    incubation                    0.5-1.7                                                            James Bay                 Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                     Lab                       Spotila et al 1979
    (120-140d)                                                                                       L. Opeongo, Ont.          Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                     L. Simcoe, Ont.           Spotila et al 1979
    incubation                    0.5-8                               10      0                      Bay of Quinte, L. Ont.
                                                                                                     South Bay, L. Huron       Spotila et al 1979
    (40-141d)                                                                                        South Bay, L. Huron
                                                                                                     Bay of Quinte., L. Ont.   Wyman 1981
    spawning               85.5                                                                      Bay of Quinte., L. Ont.   Brown 1974
                                                                                                     South Bay, L. Huron       Brown 1974
    hatching               0.5                                        >10                            L. Michigan (Lab)         Brown 1974

                                                      <6.1                                                                     Talmage and Coutant 1979

    incubation             4-7.8  3.2-8.1                                                                                      Griffiths 1979
                                                                                                                               Ihssen et al 1981
    hatching               10                                                                                                  Ihssen et al 1981
                                                                                                                               Ihssen et al 1981
    (42d)                                                                                                                      Ihssen et al 1981
                                                                                                                               Ihssen et al 1981
    hatching               0.5
                                                                                                                               Ihssen et al 1981
iz  (182d)
                                                                                                                               Ihssen et al 1981
    incubation 0.5-10                                                                                                          Ihssen et al 1981
                                                                                                                               Edsall and Yocum 1972
    spawning               <6.1   0.5-9.4

    hatching                      4.6-6.9

    heat shock 18                                                     29c        >$ll

    YOY

    spawning               4

    larval devel.          4-6

    spawning               4-7

    spawning               3-6

    spawning               6-8

    spawning               4-8

    incubation                    1-7

    (167d)

    incubation                    1-12

    (160d)

    hatching                      4-12

    hatching                      4-7

    heat shock 17.1                                                              +11

    (fry)
SPECIES: Coregonus clupeaformis (lake whitefish)                                                                                                             page 2 of 2

                                                                                                                SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

Event          Season  Optimum  Temp (a)                    (b)        Accli-  (c)     (c)              (4      Location                  Reference
               and/or  Temp     Range MWAT                  ST Max     mation  Lethal  Lethal Median    Median
              Accli-                                        for        Time    Limit   Limit Lethal     Lethal
              mation                                        Embryo                     L o w e r AT     Final
              Temp                                          Survival           Upper

heat shock                                                                                     i-31             Lab (simulated entrain)   Dunstall 1978

entrainment                                                                    28.9                             Lab (simulated entrain)   Dunstall 1978

hatching                        2.8-6.7                                                                         L. Superior               Dunstall 1978

hatching               4        4-8                                                                             L. Ontario                Dunstall 1978

heat shock 6                                                                                   +25              Lab (untempered)          Dunstall 1978 (d)

spawning                        0.5-10                                                                                                    Dunford 1980

egg                                                                                            +6               Lab (+ ambient)           Griffiths 1980

                                                7           10                                                                            This study

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.

(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryosurvival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.

(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).

(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

SPECIES: Prosopium cylindraceum (round whitefish)

Size or Age   Season Day or Upper                  Final               Lower   Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                         Night Avoidance                                   Temperature Time         Location
                                                   Preferendum Avoidance                                                                  Reference

                                                   17.5                                                 Moosehead L. Me.                  Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                        L. Ont. near Pickering GS         Carey 1982
              W                                    3-5.8                                                L. Ont. near Pickering GS         Carey 1984

              F                                    2.1-3.6

SPECIES: Prosopium cylindraceum (round whitefish)

                                                                                                                SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

              Season                                        (b)
              and/or
              Accli-                                        ST Max             Id      (cl              (d)
              mation                                                           Lethal  Lethal           Median
              Tamp                                          for        Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median   Lethal
                                                                                       Lower   Lethal   Final
                       O p t i m u m T e m p (al            Embryo mation      Upper           AT

Event                  Temp     Range MWAT                  Survival Time                                       Location                  Reference

spawning               4.5                                                                                      L. Superior               Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching
                       2.2                                                                                                                Scott and Crossman 1973
 (140d)                                                                                                                                   Carey 1982
spawning               $3                                                                                       L. Ontario                Gowans 1982
egg survival                                                                                                    L. Ontario                Dunford 1980
spawning               1-5                                                                                                                Dunford 1980
incubation
incubation             3        2-4.4
(37-168d)
                       1-2
W9
e99                             1.7-1o                      <10                                                                           Griffiths 1980
                                                            5
                                                                                               +6               Lab (above ambient)       Griffiths 1980

                                                                                               4.8              Lab (above ambient-TL50)  Griffiths 1980

                                                                                                                                          This study
SPECIES: Osmerus mordax (rainbow smelt)

                                                                                                                          THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-   Accli-        Upper   Lower        log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation   mation        Incip.  Incip.                     Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp     Time    Sea-          Lethal       a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                           son  Lethal  Temp                                                        (Min)
                                    Temp                 a  b                                                             Location             Reference

             <10              W 19                                                                              28.5                           Ellis 1984
             <6                       >24                                                                                                      Ellis 1984
             15                                                        22                               51                                     Ellis 1984
                              SP                                                                                                               Ellis 1984
             6                                                         21                               736                                    Ellis 1984
             5.3-6.2          SP                                                                                                               McCauley 1981
                                                                       23                               12                Lab (April 13)       McCauley 1981
                              SP                                                                                                               McCauley 1981
                                       21.5-28.5                       22                               51                                     McCauley 1981
                                                    8.5                                                                                        McCauley 1981
                                                                       21                               736                                    McCauley 1981
                              W 19                                                                                                             McCauley 1981
                              SP 18.9                                  20                               1630                                   McCauley 1981
                              SP                                                                                                               Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
             5.7-6.2          SP                                       24                               13                Lab (April 20)       Brown 1974
                              Sp                                                                                                               Houston 1982
                              SP                                       23                               30                                     Teleki 1976
                              SP                                                                                                               McCauley 1981
                              SP                                       22                               88                                     McCauley 1981
                              Sp                                                                                                               McCauley 1981
                                                                       27                               854                                    McCauley 1981
                                                                                                                                               McCauley 1981
             6                                                                                                  24.9      Lab                  McCauley 1981
             10.2-15                                                                                                                           McCauley 1981
150-210:     17                                                                                                           Lab                  McCauley 1981
adult
             1.0                                                       37                               <1
adult        1.6
             3.1                                                                                                22.6
             5.4                                                                                                22.8
             6.5                                                                                                23.3
             8.2                                                                                                24.1
             12.2                                                                                               20.1
                                                                                                                25.1
                                                                                                                26.4
SPECIES: Osmerus mordax (rainbow smelt)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final    Lower         Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time         Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                    Reference

                                             6.6-8.3                                         Cayuga L., N.Y.          Coutant 1977a
                                                                                             L. Michigan              Coutant 1977a
                      14                              6                                      L. Champlain, N.Y.       Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                      Ellis 1984
                                             12.8                                            Field                    Ellis 1984
                                                                                             L. Erie                  Brown 1974
                      20                                                                     L. Michigan              Brandt et al 1980a
                                                                                             L. Michigan              Brandt et al 1980a
                                             18                                              L. Michigan              Brandt et al 1980a
                                                                                             L. Michigan              Brandt et al 1980a
adult        su       >15.6                  7.2                                             L. Erie                  Brown 1974
                                                                                             L. Cayuga, N.Y.          Brown 1974
adult                 14                              6                                      L. Michigan              Michaud 1976
                                                                                             L. Michigan              Tin and Jude 1983
adult        F     D                         6-8                                             L. Michigan              Tin and Jude 1983
                                                                                             L. Michigan              Tin and Jude 1983
adult        F     D                         7.8                                             L. Erie                  Heist and Swenson 1983
                                                                                             L. Superior              Heist and Swenson 1983
adult        F     N                         11-16                                           Lab                      McCauley 1981
                                                                                             Lab                      McCauley 1981
young        SU                              >21                                             L. Michigan              Crowder et al 1981
                                             <12.8                                           L. Michigan              Crowder et al 1981

adult                                        <10                    O-18

YOY                                          13-14

<25; larvae Sp/Su                            10.1-14

             su                              14.1-16

adult              N  15.5                   7-8

             su    N                         11-16

                                             15

adult                 12                     7.6

             F     N                         11-14

             F     D                         13-16
SPECIES: Osmerus mordax (rainbow smelt)

                                                 (b)                                                      GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                          Reference
Size or Age  Optimum         (a)                 ST    No Growth Limits                                   Brown 1974
(mm)         "C
                      Range  MWAT Max                  Upper   Lower     Location

                                                               18.3      L. Erie

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature- optimum temp for growth)
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Osmerus mordax (rainbow smelt)

                                                                                                          SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                    ibl
             and/or
             Accli-                                    ST Max            (c)       (c)            (dl
             mation                                                      Lethal    Lethal Median  Median
             Temp                                      for     Accli-    Limit     Limit Lethal   Lethal
                                                                                   L o w e r AT   Final
                      Optimum Temp (al                 Embryo mation     Upper

Event                 Temp   Range M W A T             Survival Time                                      Location                      Reference

avoidance of                           2.2-14.5                                    +10.5                  Field (summer)                Ellis 1984
delta-T                                3.9-5.6                                     +22.2 30.5
spawning              10                                                                                  L. Superior                   Brown 1974
spawning run                           5-15                                                                                             Brown 1974
spawning                               8.9-18.3                                                           L. Erie                       Brown 1974
incubation                                                                                                                              Brown 1974
spawning                                                                                                  Great Lakes streams           Scott and Crossman 1973
heat shock 8.5                                                                                            Lab (simulated onshore        Crippen and Fahmy 1981(d)
                                                                                                          discharge)
hatching                                                                                                                                McCauley 198 1
                      14                               23                                                                               This study
eggs
spawning                                         13.6                                                                                   Griffiths 1978
embryo devel                                                                                                                            Griffiths 1978
i6dl                  11-17  9-19                                                                         Lab                           Griffiths 1978
embryo devel                                                                                              Lennox GS, L. Ont.
(35d)                        <6                                                                           Lab                           Griffiths 1978

                             22.5                                                                         Lab

                             6

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
Ic) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Hiodon tergisus (mooneye)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper            Final          Lower       Acclimation Acclimation             PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                      Night Avoidance                              Temperature Time                    Location
                                            Preferendum Avoidance                                                                          Reference

large                        27                            22                                              Wabash R., Ind.                 Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                           Upper Mississippi R.,           Holland and Sylvester 1983
larval       SU                             22                                                             Wisc.

SPECIES: Hiodon tergisus (mooneye)

                                                                                                                     SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                 M
             and/or
             Accli-                                 ST Max             (cl     (4                          (d)
             mation                                                    Lethal  Lethal                      Median
             Temp                                   for        Accli-  Limit   Limit               Median  Lethal
                                                                               Lower               Lethal  Final
                     O p t i m u m T e m p (a)      Embryo mation      Upper                       AT

Event                Temp           Range MWAT      Survival Time                                                    Location              Reference

spawning             10-13                                                                                           Assiniboine R., Man.  Talmage 1978
                                                                                                                                           This study
                                            11.5    13

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

SPECIES: Umbra limi (central mudminnow)

                                                                                                                     THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-         Upper   Lower   log time -                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation                 Incip.  Incip.                 Data Limits sure                tance   Thermal
             Temp                           Lethal                 Upper Lower Temp                Time    (Max)
Size or Age          mation Sea- Lethal     Temp    a + b (temp)                                   (Min)
(mm)
                     Time s o n T e m p                 a      b                                                     Location              Reference
                                                                                                                                           Beltz et al 1974
                                                                                                                     Shallow pond. Mich.
SPECIES: Umbra limi (central mudminnow)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final            Lower      Acclimation Acclimation       PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                              Temperature Time              Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                                  Reference

             su                >28.9                                                                   Ontario                      Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                       Ontario                      Scott and Crossman 1973
             SP                                               8

SPECIES: Umbra limi (central mudminnow)

                                                                                                            SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                     bl
             and/or
             Accli-                                     ST Max           (ct     (Cl              kit
             mation                                                      Lethal
             Tamp                                       for      Accli-  Limit   Lethal Median Median

                     O p t i m u m T e m p (a)          Embryo mation    Upper   Limit Lethal Lethal

Event                Temp            Range MWAT         Survival Time            L o w e r AT     Final     Location                Reference

spawning             13                                                                                     N.Y.; flood vegetation  Carlander 1969
spawning                                                                                                    Jones Ck., Ont.         Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning             12.8                                                                                                           Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                    This study
                                     <15.6

                                             13         15.6

SPECIES: Esox americanus vermiculatus (grass pickerel)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final            Lower      Acclimation Acclimation       PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
Immb                        Night Avoidance                              Temperature Time              Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                                  Reference

Small                                        26                                                        Lab                          Coutant 1977a

                                             25.5                                                                                   Carlander 1969

                               28.9          25.6                                                                                   Scott and Crossman 1973

SPECIES: Esox americanus vermiculatus (grass pickerel)

                                                                                                            SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                     bt
             and/or
             Accli-                                     ST Max           (c)     Id               (d)
             mation                                                      Lethal  Lethal           Median
             Temp                                       for      Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median   Lethal
                                                                                         Lethal   Final
                     O p t i m u m T e m p (al          Embryo mation    Upper

Event                Temp            Range MWAT         Survival Time                                       Location                Reference

spawning             7.2-11.7                9.5                                                                                    Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching                                                                                                                            Scott and Crossman 1973
                     7.8-8.9

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures

(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: ESOX lucius (northern pike)

                                                                                                                             THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-            Upper   Lower   log time =                               Expo-      Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation            Incip.  Incip.                 Data Limits sure                     tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-     Lethal   Lethal  a -t b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                     Time    (Max)
(mm)                          son     Temp     Temp                                                        (Min)
                                                       a  b                                                                  Location               Reference

subadult                              29.4     0.1                                                                           Lab                    Casselman 1978
                                                                                                                                                    Casselman 1978
F50;                                  30                                                                                                            Spotila et al 1979
  juvenile                                                                                                                                          Casselman 1978
             30                       33                                                                                                            Brown 1974
250;         25
  juvenile   27.5                     29                                                                                                            Brown 1974
             30
*50;         2527.5                   32.25            17.3066-0.4523 34.5 32.5 34.5                       >50               Lab; Maple, Ont.       Brown 1974
  juvenile   17.7                                                                                          60                Lab; Maple, Ont.
                                      32.75            17.4439-0.4490 35.0 33.0 35                         >400 33.25        Lab; Maple, Ont.       Brown 1974
*50;         17.7                                                                                          <2000
  juvenile   25                       33.25            17.0961-0.4319 35.5 33.5 33.5                                                                Brown 1974
                                                                                                    32.2-                                           Brown 1974
larval                                                                                              33.2                                            Brown 1974
embryo                                                                                                                                              Brown 1974
embryo                                28.5
newly                                 18.9 5                                                                                                        Brown 1974
                                      16.8-20.5                                                                                                     Brown 1974
  hatched                             25.5
adult                                                                                                                                               Jobling 1981
                                      32                                                                                                            Jobling 1981
larvae       18                       35.6131.7                                                                                    surface/bottom   EPA 1974
juvenile     31-36.5                                                                                                                Clear L., Iowa  Houston 1982
yolk-        14-15 24h                34                                                                                                            Cravens et al 1983
             17.7                     28.4                                                                         30.8
 saclarvae                                                                                                                                          Bonin and Spotila 1978
yolk-sac     11.8                                  3
             6.1                                                                                                                                    Spotila et al 1979
 larvae                               31
                                                                                                                                                    Spotila et al 1979
eggs,                                24.8                                                                                                           Spotila et al 1979
 2-4 cells
                                      19.8                                                                                                          Spotila et al 1979
eggs eyed                                                                                                                                           Spotila et al 1979
yolk-sac                             28.0
                                     24.1
 larvae
                                      20.6
                             su 30.8
    SPECIES: Esox lucius (northern pike)

    Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                  Final         Lower      Acclimation Acclimation      PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
    (mm)                        Night Avoidance                                Temperature Time             Location
                                                      Preferendum Avoidance                                                                   Reference

    adult                        23                   19-20         6                                       Lab                               Casselman 1978
    larval                                                                                                                                    Casselman 1978
                                                      -26                                                   Wickett L., Ont.                  Casselman 1978
    fry                                                                                                     SE L. Michigan                    Brown 1974
                                                      14-19                                                 Lab                               McCauley and Casselman 1980
                                                                                                                                              Spotila et al 1979
                                                      8-24                                                  Connecticut R., Conn.             Marcy 1976a
                                                                                                            (mean occurrence)
                                                      23-24

                                                      9.9-l 1.1

                                 22                   16.0          12.9

    SPECIES: Esox lucius (northern pike)

                                                 (b)                                                        GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

    Size or Age  Optimum                  fat    ST          No Growth Limits                               Reference
    (mm)         "C
                          Range           MWAT Max           Upper     Lower   Location                     Casselman 1978
                                                                                                            Casselman 1978
-4  283-431FL    19       1O-23                              27.5      (4      Lab (gain in weight)         Casselman 1978
Q,                                                                             Lab (gain in length)         Casselman 1978
                                                                               Lab                          Jobling 1981
                 21                                          28.2      4       Wickett L., Manitoulin Isl.  This study
                                                                               Lab                          Brown 1974
    2-3 yr       20.9                                                                                       McCauley and Casselman 1980

    2-3 y r      19.8                                                                                       EPA 1974
                                                                                                            EPA 1974
    larval       26                                                                                         EPA 1974

                                          23.1   30

    larval       18-25.6                                     23.9

    juvenile and 19-21

    subadult

                                          28     30

    larvae       21       18-26

    juvenile     26

    (a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
    (b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth Sei3SCJfl to protect against lethal effects.
SPECIES: Esox lucius (northern pike)

                                                                                                               SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

       Season                                                 (b)
       and/or
       Accli-                                                 ST Max          (cl     (cl              (4
       mation                                                                 Lethal  Lethal Median    Median
       Temp                                                   for     Accli-  Limit   Limit Lethal     Lethal
                                                                                      L o w e r AT     Final
                                  Optimum   Temp (a)          Embryo mation   Upper
                                  Temp      Range MWAT
Event                                                         Survival Time                                    Location                Reference

          cold shock 21.8                                                             4.9       -16.9          L. Wabamun, Alta.       Casselman 1978
                              12                                                                               Ont.                    DeMontalembert et al 1978
                                  6.5-17.7  9.4-l 4.4                                                          L. Simcoe, Ont.         Brown 1974
          spawning                                                                                             Canada                  Brown 1974
                                            6.7-7.8                                                            Wis. Lake               Scott and Crossman 1973
          spawning                          4.4-l 1.1                                                                                  Brown 1974
          spawning                          2.2-16.6                                                           power plant outfall,    Brown 1974
          incubation                        2-23                                                                L. Wabamun, Alta.      Brown 1974
          incubation
          cold shock 10.5                                                     34.5              -5.5           Niagara R. tributaries  Brown 1974
                                                                                           4.9  +8.5             (N.Y.)
            (embryo)                                                                            -17                                    Brown 1974
          heat shock 16
                                  12                      12  19              29.7                                                     EPA 1974
            (larvae)                        4-19              <26.7           24.2                                                     EPA 1974
          cold shock 21.8         <10       7-19                                                                                       EPA 1974

r;                                20.8      5.8-21                                                                                     Talmage and Coutant 1979
          spawning                6.4-17.7
          incubation                                                                                                                   Cravens et al 1983
            and hatch                                                                                                                  Spotila et al 1979
          spawning

          hatching
          hatch

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures,

(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Esox masquinongy (muskellunge)

                                                                                                                              THERMAL TOLERANCES:

               Accli-  Accli-              Upper   Lower   log time =                                Expo-  Resis-  Critical
               mation  mation              Incip.  Incip.                  Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age    Temp    Time    Sea-                Lethal  a + b (tem- p)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                            son       Lethal   Temp                                                     (Min)
                                          Temp             a  b                                                               Location              Reference

2,50; juvenile 25                         32.25            18.8879-0.5035 34.5 32.5 34.5                    >35               Deer Lake Hatchery.   Brown 1974
                                          32.75                                                                               Ontario
                                          33.25                                                                                                     Brown 1974
X0; juvenile   27.5                       29               20.0817-0.5283 35  33.0 35                       >40                                     Brown 1974
P50; juvenile  30.0                       34                                                                                                        Brown 1974
+50; juvenile  25-30                                       18.9506-0.4851 35.5 33.5 35.5                    55
                                          32.5                                                                                                      Jobling 1981
                                                                              32.5- 500                                                             Jobling 1981
                                                                                                                                                    Houston 1982
                                                                              33.5                                                                  Houston 1982
                                                                                                                                                    Houston 1982
new hatch      7                                                                                                    28.8                            Houston 1982
                                                                                                                    31.9
               15                                                                                                   34.5                            Houston 1982
                                                                                                                    30.3-32.4
               25                                                                                                                                   Bonin and Spotila 1978
                                                                                                                    32.8
1-15d; post 15
                                                                                                                                    Hatchery, N.Y.
hatch

25d; post      25

4 swim-up

03 >50 mm      25                                                             32.5                          400

SPECIES: Esox masquinongy (muskellunge)

Size or Age    Season Day or Upper                 Final      Lower           Acclimation Acclimation               PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                          Night Avoidance                                 Temperature Time                      Location
                                                   Preferendum Avoidance                                                                            Reference

               sp/su                               >25.5                                                            Stony L., Ontario               Minor and Crossman 1978
                                                   14                                                               L. St. Clair                    Haas 1978
small                                                                                                               Lab                             Coutant 1977a
                                                   24                                                                                               Jobling 1981
200-250                D                           25.1                                                             Lab                             Talmage and Coutant 1980
                       D                           21.9                                                             Lab                             Talmage and Coutant 1980
                                                   27.3                                                                                             Scott and Crossman 1973
                                    32.2           25.6
SPECIES: Esox masquinongy (muskellunge)

                                         (b)                                                        GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age   Optimum         (a)        ST    No Growth Limits                                     Reference
(mm)          "C
                       Range  MWAT Max         Upper   Lower       Location                         Jobling 1981
                                                                                                    Carlander 1969
              24-26.6                                                                               This study
                                                                                                    Harrison and Hadley 1979
fingerling                                     >30

                              28.4       32

                                                       10          Niagara R., N.Y.

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 113 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Esox masquinongy (muskellunge)

                                                                                                    SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

              Season                           (b)
              and/or
              Accli-                           ST Max              (4        (cl            (d)
              mation                                               Lethal    Lethal Median  Median
              Temp                             for         Accli-  Limit     Limit Lethal   Lethal
                                                                             L o w e r AT   Final
                       Optimum T e m p ( a )   Embryo mation       Upper

Event                  Temp   Range MWAT       Survival Time                                        Location                              Reference

spawning               >10                                                                          Middle Island Ck. W. Va.              Miles 1978
hatching and
development                   8-19                                                                  Lab                                   Miles 1978
spawning                                                                                            Nogies Ck., Ontario                   Minor and Crossman 1978
spawning                      10.5-15.5                                                                                                   Haas 1978
spawning                                                                                            Niagara R., N.Y.                      Talmage and Coutant 1979
spawning               13                                                                                                                 Carlander 1969
spawning                                                                                                                                  Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching               16-18                                                                                                              Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                          This study
                       13     9.5-15.5

                       12.8   9.4-l 5

                              11.7-17.2

                                         12.2  19

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Compostoma anomalum (stone roller)

                                                                                                                     THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli- Accli-        Upper      Lower   log time =                             Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                                  Incip.     Incip.                                                tance   Thermal
                                             Lethal                Data Limit-s - s u r e          Time    (Max)
Size or Age  mation mation Sea- Lethal       Temp    a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                (Min)
ImmJ
             Temp Time s o n T e m p                 a      b                                                        Location             Reference

             12-30                31                                                                                 Lab                  Cherry et al 1977

SPECIES: Compostoma anomalum (stone roller)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final      Lower       Acclimation Acclimation                PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time                       Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                                        Reference

all                         23.8                                                                           New R., Va.                    Coutant 1977a
adult                                                                                                      Lab                            Coutant 1977a
                                             26.8                                                          Lab                            Coutant 1977a
50-100 FL                                                                                                  Lab                            Houston 1982
50-100 FL                   33               29         24                                                                                Houston 1982
50-100 FL                                                                                                  Lab                            Spotila et al 1979
50-100 FL                                    28.5                                                          Lab                            Spotila et al 1979
50-100 FL                                                                                                  Lab                            Spotila et al 1979
50-100 FL                                    26.2                                                          Lab                            Spotila et al 1979
50-100 FL                                                                                                  Lab                            Spotila et al 1979
                                             19-27                                                         Lab                            Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                           Lab                            Spotila et al 1979
                                             13.4                   6                                      Lab                            Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                           Lab (rising temperatures)      Spotila et al 1979
                                             15.2                   9                                      Lab (rising temperatures)      Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                           Lab (rising temperatures)      Cherry et al 1977
                                             20.7                   12                                     Lab (rising temperatures)      Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                           Lab (rising temperatures)      Cherry et al 1977
                                             21.7                   15                                     Lab (rising temperatures)      Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                           Lab (rising temperatures)      Cherry et al 1977
                                             22.3                   18                                                                    Cherry et al 1977

                                             23.6                   21

                                             25.3                   24

                                             28.6                   27

                            21               16.5       9           12

                            24               17         12          15

                            24               21         15          18

                            27               22.4       18          21

                            30               25.1       21          24

                            33               28.2       21          27

                            33               27.4       21          30
SPECIES: Compostoma anomalum (stone roller)

                                           (b)                                                             GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                           Reference
Size or Age         Optimum         (a)    ST           No Growth Limits
(mm)                "C                                                                                     Jobling 1981
                             Range  MWAT Max            Ufwer   Lower     Location                         This study

                    26.6123

                                    27     30

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Compostoma anomalum (stone roller)

03                                                                                                         SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:
w
                    Season                              (b)
             Event  and/or
                    Accli-                              ST Max            (cl       Id             (d)
                    mation                                                Lethal    Lethal Median  Median
                    Temp                                for     Accli-    Limit     Limit Lethal   Lethal
                                                                                    L o w e r AT   Final
                             O p t i m u m T e m p (al  Embryo mation     Urwer

                             Temp   Range MWAT          Survival Time                                      Location                       Reference

nest                                12815.6                                                                N.Y.                           Brown 1974
 building                           14.4-23.9                                                                                             Brown 1974
                                                                                                           Illinois
spawning                            12                                                                     Illinois                       Brown 1974
nest                                                                                                       Illinois                       Brown 1974
                                    24-27                                                                                                 Brown 1974
 building                                                                                                  Lab (Missouri)                 Carlander 1969
spawning                            18.3-26.7                                                              Lab (Missouri)                 Carmichael 1983
spawning                                                                                                   Lab (Missouri)                 Carmichael 1983
hatching (70h)               21                                                                                                           Carmichael 1983
                                                                                                                                          This study
             (4d)            24.3
             (6d)
             (10d)           17.7

                             13.9                       >24.3

                                               22.5     27

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Chrosomus eos (northern redbelly dace)

                                                                                                                          THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                             Upper               Lower                                                  Resis-
                                                 Incip.                                                 tance
             Accli-  Accli-  Incip.              Lethal  log time =                              Expo-  Time    Critical
             mation                              Temp                  Data Limits sure                 (Min)   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    mation Sea- Lethal                  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                         (Max)
(mm)
                     Time s o n T e m p                  a       b                                                        Location             Reference

             21                                    2.7                                                                    Lab (Toronto)         Carlander 1969
             25-26                   33.1                                                                                                       Carlander 1969
             9                       28                                                                         29        Lab (Toronto)         Tyler 1966
             20                                                                                                                                 Tyler 1966
             6               su 21.5                                                                                      Lab (Toronto)          Tyler 1966
             9.5             W 26.5                                                                                                              Tyler 1966
             10              s u 30                                                                                       Lab (Toronto)          Tyler 1966
             15              su 31                                                                                                               Tyler 1966
             15              W 28                                                                                         Lab (Toronto)          Tyler 1966
             20              SU 31.5                                                                                                             Tyler 1966
             20              W 29.5                                                                                       Lab (Toronto)          Tyler 1966
             25              Su 32.7                                                                                                             Tyler 1966
             25              w 31                                                                                         Lab (Toronto)          Tyler 1966

                                                                                                                          Lab (Toronto)        Reference

                                                                                                                          Lab (Toronto)

                                                                                                                          Lab (Toronto)

                                                                                                                          Lab (Toronto)

SPECIES: Chrosomus eos (northern redbelly dace)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                 Final        Lower          Acclimation Acclimation                PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                  Temperature Time                       Location
                                                 Preferendum Avoidance

adult                                            25.3                        6-33                                                              Cravens 1981

SPECIES: Chrosomus eos (northern redbelly dace)

                                                                                                                          SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                      (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                      ST Max              (c)     Id                         (4
             mation                                                          Lethal  Lethal                     Median
             Temp                                        for         Accli-  Limit   Limit              Median  Lethal
                                                                                     Lower              Lethal  Final
                     Optimum Temp (a)                    Embryo mation       Upper                      AT

Event                Temp    Range MWAT                  Survival lime                                                    Location             Reference

Hatching                     21.1-26.7                                                                                                         Scott and Crossman 1973
 (8-10d)

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Chrosomus neogaeus (finescale dace)

                                                                                                                          THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                     Accli-  Accli-  Upper       Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                     mation          Incip.      Incip.                D a t a L i m i t s sure         tance   Thermal
                     Temp                        Lethal                Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
Size or Age                  mation Sea- Lethal  Temp    a + b (temp)                                   (Min)
(mm)
                             Time s o n T e m p          a         b                                                      Location             Reference

                     20                                                                                         28.5      Lab (Toronto)        Tyler 1966
                                                                                                                          Lab (Toronto)        Tyler 1966
                     9               W 27                                                                                 Lab (Toronto)        Tyler 1966
                                                                                                                          Lab (Toronto)        Tyler 1966
                     15              W 28                                                                                 Lab (Toronto)        Tyler 1966
                                                                                                                          Lab (Toronto)        Tyler 1966
                     15              s u 31                                                                               Lab (Toronto)        Tyler `1966
                                                                                                                          Lab (Toronto)        Tyler 1966
                     19              W 30.3

                     22              s u 32.2

                     25              W 31.3

                     25              su 32.2

SPECIES: Chrosomus neogaeus (finescale dace)

                                                                                                                          SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

m                    Season                              lb)                  (Cl     (cl                       (d)
w                    and/or                              ST Max               Lethal
                     Accli-                              for          Accli-  Limit   Lethal Median Median
              Event  mation                              Embryo       mation
                     Temp    O p t i m u m T e m p (a)   Survival     Time    Upper   Limit Lethal Lethal

                             Temp    Range MWAT                                       L o w e r hT              Final     Location             Reference

Spawning                     >15                                                                                          French Ck., Minn.    Stasiak 1978
Hatching
                             20                                                                                           French Ck., Minn.    Stasiak 1978
 (6d)                                                                                                                     Lab {Minn.)          Stasiak 1978
Spawning                             17-22                                                                                                     This Study

                                                 20      22

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, fess than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Couesius plumbeus /lake chub)

                                                                                                                            SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                        (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                        ST Max              (c)     (cl                        (d)
             mation                                                            Lethal  Lethal
             Temp                                          for         Accli-  Limit   Limit              Median Median
                                                                                       Lower
                     O p t i m u m T e m p (al             Embryo mation       Upper                      Lethal Lethal

Event                Temp          Range MWAT              Survival Time                                  AT      Final     Location             Reference

spawning             14/19                       19                                                                         Lac Saugay, Que.     Scott and Crossman 1973
 migration           4                                                                                                       (tributary/lake)
                                   4-a                                                                                                           This study
spawning                           10                                                                                       Montreal Ft., Sask   Brown et al 1970
 onset                             8-19
                                                                                                                            Montreal R., Sask    Brown et al 1970
spawning                                                                                                                    Lac La Ronge, Sask   Brown et al 1970
spawning                                                                                                                    Lab                  Brown et al 1970
hatching

 (10d)

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures,
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

SPECIES: Cyprinus carpio (carp)

                                                                                                                            THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-                Upper   Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation                Incip.  Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-         Lethal   Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                          son         Temp     Temp                                                   (Min)
                                                           a       b                                                        Location             Reference

             20                       31-34                                                                                 Lab                   Spotila et al 1979
             26                       35.7                                                                                                        Spotila et al 1979
small                                                                                                             38-39                           Spotila et al 1979
large        23.3                     35-36                                                                                                       Spotila et al 1979
                             su                                                                                   39.0      Lab                   Spotila et al 1979
w9s          26.3                                                                                                                                 Leidy and Jenkins 1977(a)
             25                                    0.7                                                            40.6                            Brown 1974
ecw          19-27                   31-35                                                                                                       Brown 1974(b)
larval       16-21                                                                     25                 10                Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
                                     35                                                                                                          Talmage 1978
late stage                           38.8                                                                                   Lab                  Talmage 1978
embryo                               36.4                                                                                                        Crippen and Fahmy 1981
                                     40-42.5                                                                                Lab

                                                                                                                            Lab

(a) hybrid C. carpio x Carassius auratus
(I)) heating rate 3 c/h
SPECIES: Cyprinus carpio (carp)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper           Final      Lower       Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                      Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time         Location
                                           Preferendum Avoidance                                                     Reference

                                           17                     10                                                 Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                     Spotila et al 1979
                                           25                     15                                                 Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                     Spotila et al 1979
                                           27                     20                                                 Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                     Spotila et al 1979
                                           31                     25                                                 Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                     Spotila et al 1979
                                           31                     30                                                 Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                     Coutant 1977a
                                           32                     35                                                 Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                     Coutant 1977a
                                           32                                                                        Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                     Coutant 1977a
adult        SP                            27.4                                            Lab                       Coutant 1977a
                                                                                           Lab                       LabCoutant 1977a
adult        su                            29.7                                            Wabash R., Ind.           Jobling 1981
                                                                                           L. Monona, Wis.           Wyman 1981
large                            34.5                 27                                   L. Monona, Wis.           Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                           Lab
large            D                         29.3-31.9                                       Lab                       Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                           Lab
large            N                         28.2-30.7                                                                 Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                           J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R.,
vow3                             35        32         28                                   Ind.                      Brown 1974
                                                                                           J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R.,
voun9            D               33.5      31.9       30                                   Ind.                      Brown 1974
                                                                                           J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R.,
vow              N               32.3      32         29.5                                 Ind.                      Talmage and Coutant 1978
adult                                                                                      Point Beach Nuclear       Marcy 1976a
                                 >31       29         24                                   Power Plant
                                                                                           Discharge effluent,
                                           29                                              White R., Ind.

                                           25-30                                           Connecticut R., Conn.
                                                                                           (mean occurrence)
             su                            26-34

             F                             16-20

             w                             5-16

large                                      20.7-24.8

                                 >36.1

                                           24

                                 39.2      21.6       5.1
    SPECIES: Cyprinus carpio (carp)

                                          (lb)                                                               GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

    Size or Age  Optimum             (at  ST    No Growth Limits                                             Reference
    (mm)         "C
                          Range      MWAT Max   Upper  Lower      Location                                   Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                             Jobling 1981
                 27                                                                                          Leidy and Jenkins 1977
                                                                                                             Brown 1974
                 30/32                                                                                       Brown 1974
                                                                                                             Brown 1974
                 32                                                                                          Cravens 1981
                                                                                                             Carlander 1969
                 27                                                                                          Carlander 1969
                                                                                                             Talmage and Coutant 1978
                 20-25                                                                                       This study

                 23-27                          29-30  10

                          23-30

                          11-19                                   Israel (winter)

    early fry             14.5-18.5                    >4.5

                 30                             >35

                                     34   38

    (a) MWAT (rnaximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature- optimum tern0 for growth).

rz  (b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.
SPECIES: Cyprinus carpio (carp)

                                                                                              SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                             (bl
             and/or
             Accli-                             ST Max          (c)     (cl           WI
             mation                                             Lethal
             Temp                               for     Accli-  Limit   Lethal Median Median

                     Optimum T e m p ( a )      Embryo mation   Upper   Limit Lethal Lethal

Event                Temp        Range M W A T  Survival Time           L o w e r AT  Final   Location               Reference

embryo                                          38                                                                   Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                     Spotila et al 1979
larval dev.          20-25                                                                                           Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                     EPA 1974
spawning                         17-28                                                                               EPA 1974
                                                                                                                     EPA 1974
                                          21    26
                                                                                                                     Brown 1974
                     19-23       16-26                                                                               Brown 1974
                                                                                                                     Brown 1974
incubation/                      17-22                                                                               Brown 1974

hatch                            14.525                                                                              Brown 1974
spawning
                                                                                                                     Brown 1974
incubation           <22                                                                                             Talmage and Coutant 1980

heat shock 20                                                   35           >+10                                    Carlander 1969
                                                                37-38        +13                                     Crippen and Fahmy 1981
heat shock, 25                                                  33.5                          Lab
                                                                33.3         +5                                      Marcy 1976b
larvae                                                          36.1         +18.1            Discharge, Nuclear     Marcy 1976b
                                                                                              Plant, Conn.
heat shock,                                                     42.5                          Discharge (warmed)
                                                                                              Lab; Simulated
larvae                                                                                        Entrainment

heat shock 28.3                                                                               Connecticut R., Conn.
                                                                                              Connecticut R., Conn.
heat shock,

larvae

hatching             23.4        11-32

heat shock,

eggs                 27          22-27
spawning

larval dev.          23-24.9     13.8-26

(5.22 mm)

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures,

(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Exoglossum maxillingua (cutlips minnow)

Size or Age      Season Day or Upper             Final        Lower         Acclimation Acclimation       PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                            Night Avoidance                             Temperature Time              Location
                                                 Preferendum Avoidance                                                             Reference
                                                                                                                                   Brown 1974
                               18.3                           i:                                          Heated discharge,        Brown 1974
                                                                                                           Delaware R., Penn.
                               19.4                           10                                           (field occurrence)

                                                                                                          Heated discharge,
                                                                                                           Delaware FL, Penn.
                                                                                                           (field occurrence)

SPECIES: Exoglossum maxillingua (cutlips minnow)

                                                                                                            SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                 Season                                 M
                 and/or
                 Accli-                                 ST Max              (4      (d               (d)
                 mation                                                     Lethal
                 Temp                                   for       Accli-    Limit   Lethal Median Median

                         Optimum Temp (a)               Embryo m a t i o n  Upper   Limit Lethal Lethal

        Event            Temp        Range M W A T      Survival Time               L o w e r bT     Final  Location               Reference

W                        <15                                                                                                       Brown 1974
W                                                                                                                                  Brown 1974
                                     17-21.5                                                                                       This study
       spawning
       spawning

                                                 19     21.5

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Hybognathus hankinsoni (brassy minnow)

                                                                                                  SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

          Season                                 lb)
          and/or
          Accli-                                 ST Max          (cl     Id               (d)
          mation                                                 Lethal  Lethal           Median
          Temp                                   for     Accli-  Limit   Limit    Median  Lethal
                                                                 Upper   Lower    Lethal  Final
                  Optimum Temp (a)               Embryo mation                   AT

Event             Temp  Range MWAT               Survival Time                                    Location  Reference

spawning                1O-12.8                                                                             Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                            This study
                                 11.5            12.8

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

SPECIES: Hybognathus nuchalis (silvery minnow)

                                                                                                  SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

          Season                                 (b)
          and/or
          Accli-                                 ST Max          Id      (cl              (d)
          mation                                                 Lethal  Lethal           Median
          Temp                                   for     Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median   Lethal
                                                                         Lower   Lethal   Final
                  Optimum Temp (a)               Embryo mation   Upper           AT

Event             Temp  Range MWAT               Survival Time                                    Location  Reference

spawning                13-20.5                                                                             Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                            This study
                                 16.8            20.5

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures,
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Hybopsis storeriana (silver chub)

                                                                                                                 SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                     (bl
             and/or
             Accli-                                     ST Max            (cl      Id                  Id1
             mation                                                       Lethal   Lethal              Median
             Temp                                       for       Accli-  Limit    Limit   Median      Lethal
                                                                                   Lower   Lethal      Final
                     O p t i m u m T e m p (a)          Embryo mation     Upper            AT

Event                Temp    Range MWAT                 Survival Time                                            Location             Reference

spawning             21                                                                                          Ohio                 Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                      Carlander 1969
                             18-21 t                                                                                                  This study

                                               21       21 +

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures,
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

SPECIES: Nocomis biguttatus ihornyhead chub)

                                                                                                                 SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season  Optimum Temp (a)                   ibl       Accli-  ICI      (cl                 Id)
             and/or                                     ST Max    mation  Lethal   Lethal M e d i a n  Median
Event        Accli-  Temp    Range MWAT                 for       Time    Limit    Limit Lethal        Lethal    Location             Reference
             mation                                     Embryo                     L o w e r ?rT       Final
             Temp                                       Survival          Upper

spawning             23.9                                                                                                             Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                      This study
                                               23.9

SPECIES: Nocomis micropogon (river chub)

                                                                                                                 THERMAL TOLERANCES:

Size or Age  Accli-  Accli-             Upper   Lower     fog time =  Data Limits  Expo-   Resis-      Critical  Location             Reference
(mm)         mation  mation            Incip.   Incip.  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower  sure    tance       Thermal                        Spotilla et al 1979
             Temp    Time    Sea- Lethal       Lethal   ab                         Temp    Time        (Max)
                             son Temp          Temp                                        (Min)

             15                                                                                        30.9      Lab (N.Y.)
SPECIES: Nocomis micropogon (river chub)

                                                                                                 SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

Event      Season  Optimum  T e m p (al         (b)       Accli-  (cl     (cl            (4      Location  Reference
           and/or  Temp     Range MWAT          ST Max    mation  Lethal  Lethal Median  Median
           Accli-                               for       Time    Limit   Limit Lethal   Lethal
           mation                               Embryo                    L o w e r AT   Final
           Temp                                 Survival          Upper

spawning                    19-28                                                                Illinois  Carlander 1969
nest                                                                                             Illinois  Brown 1974
                            11.9-20.6
 building                                                                                                  This study
nest                        19.4-27.8

 building

                                          23.5  28

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.

(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Notemigonus crysoleucas (golden shiner)

                                                                                                                        THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-   Accli-            Upper   Lower   log time =                             Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation   mation            Incip.  Incip.                 Data Limits s u r e            tance   Thermal
             Temp     Time    Sea- Lethal       Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower T e m p             Time    IMarl     Location                  Reference
                              son Temp          Temp                                                  (Min)
Size or Age                                             a  b                                                                                      Reutter & Herdendorf 1976
                                                                                                                                                  Brown 1974
(mm)         14.4             SP                        42.7095-1.3507 30.5 29.5                              30.5      Lab                       Brown 1974
             10                                         30.2861-0.8933 32.5 31                                          Lab (Ohio, Ont., Fla.)    Brown 1974
adult        15                   29.3                  31.0275-0.8722 34.5 32                                  39.5    Lab (Ohio, Ont.. Fla.)    Brown 1974
adult        20                                         34.2505-0.9226 36 34                                    40      Lab (Ohio, Ont., Fla.)    Brown 1974
adult        25                   30.5          1.5     26.3829-0.6615 37.5 35                                  100     Lab (Ohio, Ont., Fla.)    Spotila et al 1979
adult        30                                                                                                 30      Lab (Ohio, Ont., Fla.)    Spotila et al 1979
adult                             31.8 4.0                                                                       15     Lab (May 28)              Spotila et al 1979
adult        22                                                                                                 >1000   Lab (June 17)              Spotila et al 1979
                                  33.2          7.0                                                              800    Lab (June 28)              Spotila et al 1979
 3.49 in;     17.1-17.5                                                                                                 Lab (July 8)               Spotila et al 1979
              21                  34.7            11.2                                                            40     Lab (July 28)             Spotila et al 1979
  70-80;      22.8                                                                                                33     Lab (Aug 91               Spotila et al 1979
              25-26           SP 30.3                                                                             35     Lab (Aug 26)              Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                  36     Lab (Sep 8)               Carlander 1969
               22             su 31.8                                                                             38     Lab (Ont)                 Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                  39     Lab (Ont.)                Carlander 1969
                              su 33.5                                                                                                              Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                         Lab (Ont.)
                              s u 33.4                                                                                   Lab (Ont)                  Brown 1974
                                                                                                                         Field
                              SU 33.2                                                                                                               Brown 1974
                                                                                                                          Lab
                              su 32.8                                                                                     (temp incr 0.75C/d)       Brown 1974
                                                                                                                          Lab                       Brown 1974
                              su 31.6                                                                                     (temp incr 0.75C/d)
                                                                                                                          Lab                        Brown 1974
                              F   30.4                                                                                    Lab
                                                                                                                          (Algonquin Pk., Ont.)      Brown 1974
                                  31-31.6                                                                                 Lab
                                               3.4                                                                         (Algonquin Pk., Ont.)     Brown 1974
                                                                                                                           Lab
                                  32.7            3.4                                                                      (Algonquin Pk., Ont.)     Brown 1974
                                                                                                                           Lab
                                  33.2                                                                                    (Algonquin Pk., Ont.)       Brown 1974
                                                                                                                           Lab
                                  27-35                                                                                                               Brown 1974
                                                                                                                           (Algonquin Pk., Ont.)
             22                                                                                                             Heated discharge,         Leidy and Jenkins 1977
                                                                                                                                                     Hutchison 1976
             0                    26.7                                                                35                     Delaware R.. Penn.      Hutchison 1976
                                                                                                      30.5                  Michigan lake            Hutchison 1976
             25                   35                                                                  32.5                                           Hutchison 1976
                                                                                                      35                      mortality              Hutchison 1976
             10                                                                                       33                                             Beltz et al 1974

             15

             30

             20

             25-26.1              36

                                  38

                10

                15

                20

                25

                30

                22                40
Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final           Lower        Acclimation Acclimation
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                               Temperature Time
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                 Location                           Reference

adult        W                               16.8                                                  Lab                                Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                             23.7                                                                                     Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
             SP                              22.3                                                  Heated discharge,                  Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
             su                              21.0                                                   Delaware Ft., Penn.               Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                                                                                                                      Carlander 1969
             F                                                                                     Heated discharge,                  Brown 1974
                                                                                                    Delaware R., Penn.
                            >30              23.9-28.9                                                                                Brown 1974
                            >32.2                                                                  Heated discharge,
                            >37.2            24              6.7                                    Delaware R., Penn.                Brown 1974
                            >35
                            40                                                                     Heated discharge,                  Marcy 1976a
                                                                                                    Connecticut R., Conn

SPECIES: Notemigonus crysoleucas (golden shiner)

                                                                                                           SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                     (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                     ST Max            (4      k)               (4
             mation                                                       Lethal  Lethal           Median
             Temp                                       for       Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median   Lethal
                                                                                  Lower   Lethal   Final
                     Optimum Temp (a)                   Embryo mation     Upper           AT

Event                Temp   Range M W A T               Survival Time                                      Location                   Reference

spawning             20                                                                                    N.Y. ponds                 Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning             20-21                                                                                 Ponds, Alab.               Carlander 1969
hatching                                                                                                   Field
                     20                                                                                                               Carlander 1969
 (1st)                                                                                                     Lab (spring)               Carlander 1969
                                                                                                           Lab (winter 5% mortality)  Brown 1974
                                                                          >33-35                           Lab (gonad regression)
                                                                                                                                      Brown 1974
spawning                    15.6-21
                                                                                                                                      Brown 1974
hatching
                                                                                                                                      Brown 1974
(4d)                 15.6+                                                                                                            Talmage and Coutant 1978
                                                                                                                                      This study
heat shock                                                                                +11.1
(1.5-4.5 in) 15.6                                                                         +21.7

heat shock

(1.5-4.5 in) 15.6

spawning             <27

                                             20         25

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures,
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Notropis anogenus (pugnose shiner)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                 Final     Lower        Acclimation Acclimation                          PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                             Temperature Time                                 Location
                                                 Preferendum Avoidance                                                                                      Reference
                                                                                                                                                            McAllister et al 1385
                                                 15-18                                                                   Rondeau Harbour, L. Erie

SPECIES: Notropis atherinoides (emerald shiner)

                                                                                                                                   THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                                Upper Lower                                                                      Resis-
                                                                                                                 tance
             Accli- Accli-      Incip. Incip. log time =                Expo-                                    Time    Critical
                                                                                                                 (Min)   Thermal
Size or Age  m a t i o n m a t i o n S e a - L e t h a l L e t h a l a + b ( t e m p ) D a t a L i m i t s sure          (Max)
(mm)
             T e m p T i m e s o n T e m p Temp         a  b            Upper Lower Temp                                           Location                 Reference

             7.8            SP                                                                                           28.6      Lab                      Reutter and Herdendorf 1376

0-1.9 g;     5                  23.3                    20.3532-0.7959                                                             Lab (Chippewa Ck, Ont.)  Brown 1374
juvenile     10                                         36.5023-1.2736                                                             Lab (Chippewa Ck, Ont.)  Brown 1374
(<1 yr)      15                 26.7                    47.4849-1.5441                                                             Lab (Chippewa Ck, Ont.)  Brown 1374
             20                                         33.4714-0.9858                                                             Lab (Chippewa Ck, Ont.)  Brown 1974
YOY          25                 28.9             1.6    26.7036-0.7337                                                             Lab (Chippewa Ck, Ont.)  Brown 1374
                                                                                                                                   Lab                      Ellis 1384
             20                 30.7 5.2                                                                                           Lab                      Ellis 1384
             5                                                                                                                     Lab                      Ellis 1384
             10                 30.7             8.0                                                                               Lab                      Carlander 1369
             15                                                                                                                    Lab                      Carlander 1963
             20                                                                                                          34.3      Lab                      Carlander 1963
                                                                                                                                   Lab                      Carlander 1363
             20                 35.2                                                                                               (ultimate upper lethal)  Carlander 1369
             25                                                                                                                                             Ellis 1984
                                                                        32                                       60                                         Brown 1374
             5                                                                                                                                              Brown 1374
             10                 23                                                                                                                          Brown 1974
             15                                                                                                                                             Brown 1974
                                27                                                                                                                          Brown 1374
             20-25                                                                                                                                          Talmage 1378
                                28.9             1.6                                                                                                        Talmage 1978

                                31               5-5.2

                                                                                                                         30.7

                                                                        33                                       30

                                                                        34                                       35

                                27-28

                                                                        24                                       175

                                                                        27                                       150

                                                                        29.5                                     70

                                35.2                                                                                     34.3
                                32.6
SPECIES: Notropis atherinoides ([emerald shiner)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                  Final         Lower              Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                        Temperature Time         Location
                                                  Preferendum Avoidance                                                                   Reference

adtilt       w                                    8.3                                                       Lab                           Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                                  1o-12                                                     Lab                           Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
YOY          w                                    13-15                                                     Lab                           Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                                  22-23                                                     Lab                           Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
YOY          SP                                   13-14                                                     Lab                           Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                                  5-6                                                       Lab                           Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
YOY          su                                   16                                                        Lab                           Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                                  22-24                                                     Lab                           Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
YOY          F                                    15-17                                                     Lab                           Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                                                                                                                          Spotila et al 1979
adult        w                                                           6                                  White R., Ind.                Brown 1974
                                                  27.8125.1                                                  heated discharge
             SP                                   25                                                                                      Ellis 1984
             SU                                   25                                                        Field occurrence              Jobling 1981
             F                                    27                                                                                      Brown 1974
                                                                                                            L. Simcoe, Ont.               EPA 1974
                             >28-30                                                                         L. Simcoe, Ont.               EPA 1974
                             >31.1                                                                          Ohio R.

                             42

             su
             w

SPECIES: Notropis atherinoides (emerald shiner)

                                             (b)                                                            GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age  Optimum         (al             ST          No Growth Limits                                   Reference
(mm)         "C
                      Range  MWAT Max                    Upper              Lower  Location                 Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                            Jobling 1981
             24-28.9                                                                                        Carlander 1969
             27                                                                                             Brown 1974
                                                                                                            EPA 1974
YOY                                                                         21     L. Erie                  Talmage 1978
juvenile
             29       24-31
YOY
                             30              31

             28.9     19-29                              29                 <19    Lab (Minn.)

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.
SPECIES: Notropis atherinoides (emerald shiner)

                                                                                                       SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

          Season                                       (b)
          and/or
          Accli-                                       ST Max          (c)     (4              (4
          mation                                                       Lethal  Lethal          Median
          Temp                                         for     Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median  Lethal
                                                                               Lower   Lethal  Final
                  Optimum Temp (a)                     Embryo mation   Upper           AT

Event             Temp  Range MWAT                     Survival Time                                   Location  Reference

spawning          24                                                                                             Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning                                                                                                         Brown 1974
hatch (24h)             20-27                                                                                    Brown 1974
                                                                                                                 EPA 1974
cold shock 13     23.9                                                                                 1. Erie   Edsall and Yocum 1972
cold shock 15                                                                                                    Edsall and Yocum 1972
cold shock 20                                    23    27                                              Lab       Edsall and Yocum 1972
cold shock 25                                                                                          Lab       Edsall and Yocum 1972
                                                                               0       -12.5           Lab
                                                                                                       Lab
                                                                               1.7     - 13.5

                                                                               5       -15

                                                                               7.6     -17.5

SPECIES: Notropis bifrenatus (bridle shiner)

                                                                                                       SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

          Season                                       (b)
          and/or
          Accli-                                       ST Max          (4      (c)             (d)
          mation                                                       Lethal  Lethal          Median
          Temp                                         for     Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median  Lethal
                                                                               Lower   Lethal  Final
                  O p t i m u m T e m p (id            Embryo mation   Upper           AT

Event             Temp  Range MWAT                     Survival Time                                   Location  Reference

spawning                14-27                                                                          N.H.      Carlander 1969

                                                 20.5  27                                                        This study

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Notropis cornutus (common shiner)

                                                                                                                        THERMAL TOLERANCES:

              Accli-  Accli-         Upper     Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
              mation  mation         Incip.    Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age   Temp.   Time    Sea-  Lethal     Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                           son  Temp       Temp                                                   (Min)
                                                       a  b                                                             Location             Reference

                                    32                                                                                                       Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                             Kowalski et al 1978
              15              W                                                                               30.6      Lab (Dec 15)         Kowalski et al 1978
              15                                                                                              31.9      Lab (Mar 15)         Carlander 1969
              5               SP                                                                                                             Carlander 1969
              10                      26.7-27                                                                           Lab (Toronto, Ont.)  Carlander 1969
              15                                                                                                        Lab (Toronto, Ont.)  Carlander 1969
              20                    28.6-29                                                                             Lab (Toronto, Ont.)  Carlander 1969
              25                                                                                                        Lab (Toronto, Ont.)  Carlander 1969
              25-26                 30.3 0                                                                              Lab (Toronto, Ont.)  Brown 1974
              10                                                                                                        Lab (Toronto, Ont.1  Brown 1974
              15                    31-32.3 3.7-4                                                                                            Brown 1974
              20                                                                                                        Lab (Don R., Ont.)   Brown 1974
              25                    33.5       7.8                                                                      Lab (Don FL, Ont.)   Brown 1974
              25                                                                                                        Lab (Don R., Ont.)   Brown 1974
4.46 in;      30              Su 32                                                                                     Lab (Don R., Ont.)
adult                                                                                                                   Lab (Don R., Ont.)   Brown 1974
              5                     29                               29   29    29                    50                Delaware R., Penn.   Brown 1974
4-5 g;        10                                                                                                        Delaware R., Penn.   Brown 1974
adult (2 yr)  15                    30.5               45.4331-1.3979 31.5 31   31.5                  28                                     Brown 1974
              20                                                                                                                             Brown 1974
              25                    31                 34.5324-1.0116 33  31.5 33                     17                                     Brown 1974
              7.2                                                                                                                            Brown 1974
              11.1            w 31                     24.9620-0.6878 34  32    34                    35

                                    31                 28.5059-0.7741 35.5 32   35.5                  15

                                    31                 28.1261-0.7316 36.5 34   36.5                  20      31

                                    26.7

                                    28.6               40.7738-1.3522 30  29
                                                       45.0972-1.3874 32
                                    30.3               34.5324-1.0116 33  31
                                                       24.9620-0.6878 34
                                    31         3.7                        31.5

                                    31         7.8                        32    31                    5000

                              F 30.6

                                    31.1
SPECIES: Notropis cornutus (common shiner)

                                                                                                                           SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                      bl           Accli-  (cl     (cl                              (4
             and/or                                      ST Max       mation  Lethal  Lethal            Median Median
             Accli-                                      for          Time    Limit
             mation  O p t i m u m T e m p (al           Embryo                       Limit Lethal L e t h a l
             Temp                                        Survival             Upper
Event                Temp          Range M W A T                                      L o w e r AT              Final      Location             Reference

spawning                           15.6-18.3                                                                           Ithaca. N.Y.             Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning                           28.3                                                                                L. Erie tributary        Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning                           19-21-k                                                                                                      Carlander 1969
spawning                           15-25.5                                                                             Cayuga L., N.Y.          Brown 1974
initial                                                                                                                Big Sandy L., Minn.
                                   13-15.6                                                                                                      Brown 1974
 spawning                                                                                                              S. Michigan              Brown 1974
spawning             20            18.9-21.1                                                                           Central N.Y.             Brown 1974
spawning
initial                            <28                                                                          ,                               Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                Brown 1974
 spawning                          18                                                                                                           This study
spawning                                                                                                                                        Dodson and Young 1917
                     17.8
inshore                                                                                                                                         Dodson and Young 1977
 migration                                       20      28

spawning                           12-l 5.5

                                   13.5-18

( a ) M W A T = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

SPECIES: Notropis heterodon (black chin shiner)

                                                                                                                           THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-         Upper        Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation         Incip.       Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-  Lethal        Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Marl
(mm)                          son                Temp                                                   (Min)
                                   Temp                  a         b                                                       Location             Reference
                                                                                                                                                Beltz et al 1974
                                   38                                                                                      Pond Michigan
    SPECIES: Notropis hudsonius (spottail shiner)

                                                                                                                            THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                                 Upper             Lower                                                  Resis-
                                                   Incip.                                                 tance
                 Accli-  Accli-  Incip.            Lethal  log time =                              Expo-  Time    Critical
                 mation                            Temp                  Data Limits sure                 (Min)   Thermal
    Size or Age  Temp    mation Sea- Lethal                a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                         (Max)
    (mm)
                         Time s o n T e m p                a  b                                                             Location             Reference

    adult        21.7            su                                                                               32.8      Lab                  Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                         >35                                                                      33-34     Field (active)       Carlander 1969
    13-36;       7.2                                                                                                        Lab (0.6-1.1C/h)     Brown 1974
                 11.1            W 30.6                                                                                     Lab (0.6-1.1C/h)     Brown 1974
    juvenile                             31.1                            37.3                             5
                 23                                                                                                         Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
    13-36;                                37.3
                 23                                                                                                         Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
    juvenile                              36                             36                               10
                 23                                                                                                         Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
    13-36;                                36
                 26                                                                                                         Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
    juvenile                              38.1                           36                               30
                 26                                                                                                         Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
    13-36;                                37.9
                 26                                                                                                         Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
    juvenile     9                        36.8                           38.1                             5                 Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
                 17                       30.5                                                                              Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
    13-36;       23-24                    32.4                                                                              Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
                 26                       34.3                                                                              Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
    juvenile     26                       35.8                           37.9                             10                Lab                  Kellogg and Gift 1983
                                          34.7
    13-36;

    juvenile                                                             36.8                             30

CD  20-65; YOY                                                           30.5                             60
CD
    20-65; YOY                                                           32.4                             60

    20-65; YOY                                                           34.3                             60

    20-65; YOY                                                           35.8                             60

    21; young
$,p~cfEs: Notropis hudsonius (spottail shiner)

             Season Day or UPPar                Final  Lower               Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:  Reference
                            Night Avoidance                                Temperature Time         Location
Size or Age                                                                                                                  Brandt et al 1980
(mm)                                            Preferendum Avoidance                                                        Brandt et al 1980
                                                                                                                             Brandt et al 1980
                 D                              >13                                                 L. Michigan              Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                                                                                    L. Michigan              Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
adult                     D/N                   II-16                                               L. Michigan              Spotila et al 1979
             w                                                                                      Lab                       Coutant 1977a
large        SP                                 17-20                                               Lab                       Brown 1974
110-116;                                        0
adult                                   >22                                                         L. Michigan               Brown 1974
                                                il                                                  Delaware R., Penn.        Brown 1974
                                        >35
                                                14.3                                                                          Houston 1982
                                                                                                                              Talmage and Coutant 1980
                                                14                                                                             Crowder et al 1981
                                                                       13                                                      Crowder et al 1981

                                                                           15                       (6% salinity) estuary      Kellogg and Gift 1983

                                                13.9                                                heated discharge into      Kellogg and Gift 1983

             SU        <40                                                                          Delaware Ft., Penn.         Kellogg and Gift 1983
                                                                                                                                Marcy 1976a
adult        w                                  10.2                                                L. Michigan
                                                                                                    L. Michigan
                                                17-20                                               L. Michigan

             F   D                              19-20  15

             F      N                           17-18  11

24.4 TL;                                        28.5                       25                       Lab (N.Y.)

 vw                                             29.9                       25                       Lab (N.Y.)
22.9 TL;

young                                                                                               Lab (N.Y.)
                                                                                                    Heated discharge into
21-30 TL;                                       29
                                                                                                     Connecticut FL, Conn.
young                  39.2                     20.1   5.1
SPECIES: Notropis hudsonius (spottail shiner)

                                               (bl                                                               GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age  Optimum             (a)           ST    No Growth Limits                                            Reference
(mm)         "C
                      Range      MWAT Max            Upper       Lower       Location                            Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                 Brown 1974
Young                                                            18          L. Erie                             Brown 1974
                                                                                                                 Kellogg and Gift 1983
YOY                                                  >35                     Delaware R., Penn.                  This study
Young                                                                                                            Prince and Mengel 1981
                                                                 10          Lower Red L., Minn.

             27.3     22.8-32.7                      34          <20         Lab (N.Y.)

                                 30            32.7

             >26                                                             Clear L., Iowa

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature optimum temp for growth)
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Notropis hudsonius (spottail shiner)

                                                                                                                 SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                      (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                      ST Max              (4          (cl             (4
             mation                                                          Lethal      Lethal
             Temp                                        for         Accli-  Limit       Limit    Median Median
                                                                                         Lower
                      Optimum Temp (a)                   Embryo mation       Upper                Lethal Lethal

Event                 Temp       Range MWAT              Survival Time                            AT     Final   Location               Reference

spawning              20                                                                 4.9      -16.9          L. Erie                Carlander 1969
hatching              20                                                                                         L. Erie                Brown 1974
cold shock 21.8                                                                                                  L. Wabamun, Alta.      Coutant 1977b
                      18C
spawning                                                                                                          (30 min delta -T)     Mansfield 1984
                                 15-20                                                                           L. Michigan tributary  Mansfield 1984
heat shock                                                                                                       Great Lakes            Talmage 1978
                                                                             28                                  Connecticut R., Conn.
                                                                                                                                        This study.
                                                                                                                  Nuclear GS

                                               17.5      20

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Notropis rubellus (rosyface shiner)

                                                                                                                                     THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                     Accli-   Accli-         Upper      Lower   log time =                                  Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                     mation  mation          Incip.     Incip.                    Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age          Temp    Time     Sea-  Lethal      Lethal  a + b (temp)      Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                                   son  Temp        Temp                                                       (Min)
                                                                a          b                                                         Location                   Reference

                     12-23                     33                                                                                    Lab                    Cherry et al 1977

SPECIES: Notropis rubellus (rosyface shiner)

Size or Age          Season Day or Upper                 Final         Lower      Acclimation Acclimation                  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                                Night Avoidance                               Temperature Time                         Location
                                                         Preferendum Avoidance                                                                              Reference

         adult                        31                 26.8          21                                                  Lab                              Coutant 1977a
         adult                                                                                                             Lab (rising water temperatures)  Houston 1982
         50-100 FL;                                      27.6                                                              Lab (rising water temperatures)  Cherry et al 1977
         adult                                                                                                             Lab (rising water temperatures)  Cherry et al 1977
         50-100 FL;                   21                 20.8          9           12                                      Lab (rising water temperatures)  Cherry et at 1977
E; adult                                                                           15                                      Lab (rising water temperatures)  Cherry et at 1977
to 50-100 FL;                         24                 21.7          12          18                                      Lab (rising water temperatures)  Cherry et al 1977
         adult                                                                     21                                      Lab (rising water temperatures)  Cherry et al 1977
         50-100 FL;                   21                 22.2          15          24                                      Lab (rising water temperatures)  Cherry et al 1977
         adult                                                                     27                                      Lab (rising water temperatures)  Cherry et al 1977
         50-100 FL;                   27                 22.5          15          30                                                                       Cherry et al 1977
         adult                                                                     33
         50-100 FL;                   27                 25.8          21
         adult                                                                    Location
         50-100 FL;                   33                 28.1          21
         adult
         50-100 FL;                   33                 28.0          21
         adult
         50-100 FL;                   34                 27.7          24
        adult
                                                         26

SPECIES: Notropis rubellus (rosyface shiner)

                                                     W                                                                                    GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                                                          Reference
Size or Age          Optimum              (a)        ST         No Growth Limits
(mm)                 "C
                                Range MWAT Max                  Upper      Lower

                     25.7/25.3                                                                                                            Jobling 1981

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature -optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.
SPECIES: Notropis rubellus (rosyface shiner)

                                                                                                                         SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                     (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                     ST Max             (cl     (c)                         (4
             mation                                                        Lethal  Lethal Median               Median
             Temp                                       for        Accli-  Limit   Limit Lethal                Lethal
                                                                                   L o w e r L\T               Final
                     Optimum T e m p ( a )              Embryo mation      Upper

Event                Temp          Range M W A T        Survival Time                                                    Location             Reference

spawning                           26.1-28.9                                                                             N.Y.                 Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning                           20-22.2                                                                               Penn.                Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching
                     21.1                                                                                                Penn.                Scott and Crossman 1973
 (59h)               >21.1                                                                                               N.Y.                 Carlander 1969
spawning             >20                                                                                                                      Brown 1974
spawning                                                                                                                                      This study

                                                24.5    28

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short -term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

SPECIES: Notropis spilopterus (spotfin shiner)

                                                                                                                         THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-         Upper       Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation         Incip.      Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-  Lethal       Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                          son  Temp         Temp                                                   (Min)
                                                            a   b                                                        Location             Reference
                                                                                                                                              Cherry et al 1977
             12-36                 36                                                                                    Lab
    SPECIES: Notropis spilopterus (spotfin shiner)

    Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                     Final         Lower      Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
    (mm)                        Night Avoidance                                   Temperature Time         Location
                                                         Preferendum Avoidance                                                               Reference

    adult                          35                    29.5          26                                  Lab                               Coutant 1977a
    adult                                                                                                  Lab                               Jobling 1981
                                                         29.4                                              White Ft., heated                 Brown 1974
    50-100 FL;
     adult                         >31.1                                                                    discharge, Ind.                  Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                                                             Cherry et al 1977
                                   27                    21.4          9          12                       Lab (rising water temperatures)   Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                           Lab (rising water temperatures)   Cherry et al 1977
                                   24                    21.8          12         15                       Lab (rising water temperatures)   Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                           Lab (rising water temperatures)   Cherry et al 1977
                                   27                    24.1          15         18                       Lab (rising water temperatures)   Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                           Lab (rising water temperatures)   Cherry et al 1977
                                   27                    26.4          18         21                       Lab (rising water temperatures)   Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                           Lab (rising water temperatures)
                                   30                    27.3          21         24                       Lab Irking water temperatures)

                                   33                    30.6          21         27

                                   36                    31.8          24         30

                                   36                    31            24         33

                                   38                    29.2          27         36

                                                         31

=;  SPECIES: Notropis spilopterus (spotfin shiner)
6.

                                                    (b)                                                    GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                           Reference
    Size or Age  Optimum               la)          ST          No Growth Limits
    (mm)         "C                                                                                        Jobling 1981
                            Range      MWAT Max                 Upper      Lower  Location                 This study

                 28.6/29.2

                                       31.3 35

    (a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature -optimum temp for growth).
    (b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.
     SPECIES: Notropis spilopterus (spotfin shiner)

                                                                                                                   SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                  Season                                     (b)
                  and/or
                  Accli-                                     ST Max              (c)     (c)             (4)
                  mation                                                         Lethal  Lethal          Median
                  Temp                                       for         Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median  Lethal
                                                                                                 Lethal  Final
                          Optimum Temp (a)                   Embryo mation       Upper

     Event                Temp        Range MWAT             Survival Time                                         Location             Reference

     heat shock 22                                                               >33             >11               Lab                  Talmage 1978
     cold shock 33                                                                                                                      Talmage 1978
                                                                                         <22     <11               Lab

     (a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
     (b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
     (c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
     (d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

z    SPECIES: Notropis stramineus (sand shiner)
oLn

                                                                                                                   THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                  Accli-  Accli-      Upper          Lower   log time =                  Expo-   Resis-  Critical
                  mation              Incip.         Incip.                              sure    tance   Thermal
                  Temp                               Lethal                               Temp   Time    (Max)
     Size or Age          mation Sea- Lethal         Temp    a + b (temp) Data Limits            (Min)
     (mm)
                          Time s o n T e m p                 a    -- b Upper     Lower                             Location             Reference

                  15              w                                                                      32.3      Lab (Dec 15) N.Y.    Kowalski et al 1978
                                                                                                                                        Kowalski et al 1978
                    15            w                                                                      32.3      Lab (Jan 15) N.Y.    Kowalski et al 1978

                  15              SP                                                                     33.0      Lab (Mar 15) N.Y.
SPECIES: Pimephales notatus (bluntnose minnow)

                                                                                                                      THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                                 Upper   Lower                                                      Resis-
                                         Incip.                                                     tance
              Accli- Accli-      Incip.  Lethal      log time =                              Expo-  Time    Critical
                                         Temp                      Data Limits sure                 (Min)   Thermal
Size or Age   mation mation Sea- Lethal              a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                         (Max)
(mm)
              Temp Time s o n T e m p                a  b                                                             Location             Reference

adult         6.0            SP                                                                             27.8      Lab                  Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                                                                                            31.9      Lab (N.Y.)           Spotila et al 1979
              15                                                                                            34.8      Lab (1C/h)           Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                      Lab                  Cherry et al 1977
              12-30              32
              5                                                                                                       Etobicoke Ck., Ont.  Brown 1974
0-2 g;        10                 26                  24.6417-0.8602 27   26.5 27                    25
adult (1 yr)  15                                                                                    10                Etobicoke Ck.. Ont.  Brown 1974
0-2 g;        20                 28.3                55.8357-1.8588 29.5 29  29.5                   20
adult (1 yr)  25                                                                                    15                Etobicoke Ck., Ont.  Brown 1974
0-2 g;                           30.6           10   28.0377-0.8337 32   32  32                     21
adult (1 yr)                                                                                        >120              Etobicoke Ck., Ont.  Brown 1974
0-2 g;                           31.7           4.2  34.3240-0.96882 34  32.5 34
adult (1 yr)                                                                                                          Etobicoke Ck., Ont.  Brown 1974
o-2 g;                           33.3           7.5  50.8212-1.4181 35   34  35                                       S. Michigan pond     Brown 1974
adult (1 yr)
                                                                                                                      S. Michigan pond     Brown 1974
                                                                             38                                       (one fish)

17-23; young                     38
adult
SPECIES: Pimephales notatus (bluntnose minnow)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                  Final         Lower      Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                Temperature Time         Location
                                                  Preferendum Avoidance                                                                   Reference

                                                  23-29.5                                           Field                                 Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                    Lab                                   Spotila et al 1979
                                                  15.7                     6                        Lab                                   Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                    Lab                                   Spotila et al 1979
                                                  17.2                     9                        Lab                                   Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                    Lab                                   Spotila et al 1979
                                                  20.5                     12                       Lab                                   Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                    Lab                                   Spotila et al 1979
                                                  20.4                     15                       Lab                                   Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                    Lab                                   Coutant 1977a
                                                  21.5                     18                       (max temp of occurrence               Brown 1974
                                                                                                    in field) discharge
                                                  22.8                     21                       White R., Ind.                        Houston 1982
                                                                                                    Lab                                   Houston 1982
                                                  25.7                     24                       Lab                                   Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                    Lab (rising water temperatures)       Cherry et al 1977
                                                  28.9                     27                       Lab (rising water temperatures)       Cherry et al I977
                                                                                                    Lab (rising water temperatures)       Cherry et al 1977
adult                 31                          29            21                                  Lab (rising water temperatures)       Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                    Lab (rising water temperatures)       Cherry et al 1977
50-100 FL;            >31.1                                                                         Lab (rising water temperatures)       Cherry et al 1977
50-100 FL;                                                                                          Lab (rising water temperatures)
50-100 FL;                                        28.4
50-100 FL;
50-100 FL:                                        28.1
50-100 FL;
50-100 FL;            21                          19.3          9          12

                      24                          20.9          12         15

                             27                   21.9          15         18

                             27                   23.2          18         21

                             27                   26.4          21         24

                             30                   27.9          21         27

                             33                   29            24         30

                                                  28.1

SPECIES: Pimephales notatus (bluntnose minnow)

                                             (b)                                                    GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                    Reference
Size or Age  Optimum             (a)         ST          No Growth Limits
(mm)         "C
                      Range      MWAT Max                Upper      Lower  Location

             27.2124                                                                                Jobling 1981
                                                                                                    This study
                                 27.9 31

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).

(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.
SPECIES: Pimephales notatus (bluntnose minnow)

                                                                                                    SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

          Season                                (b)             (c)     (c)                    (4)
          and/or                                ST Max          Lethal  Lethal  Median Median
          Accli-                                                Limit
          mation                                for     Accli-
          Temp                                                  Upper
                  O p t i m u m T e m p (a)     Embryo mation           Limit Lethal L e t h a l

Event             Temp  Range MWAT              Survival Time           L o w e r ,4T  Final        Location                 Reference

spawning                2,20                                                                        Illinois                 Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning                21.1-26.1                                                                   Michigan                 Carlander 1969
spawning                >21                                                                         Outdoor spawning pools,  Carlander 1969
spawning                19-31                                                                                                Gale 1983
                                                                                                     Penn.
                                                                                                                             This study
                                   25           31

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperaturesas defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Pimephales promelas (fathead minnow)

                                                                                                                                   THERMAL TOLERANCES:

Size or Age  Accli-  Accli-  Sea-   Upper                Lower   log time =                             Expo-  Resis-  Critical
(mm)         mation  mation   son   Incip.               Incip.                Data Limits sure                tance   Thermal
             Temp    Time          Lethal                Lethal  a t b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                Time    (Max)
                                   Temp                  Temp                                                  (Min)
                                                                 a      b                                                          Location                 Reference

                                   33.2                                                                                                                       Jobling 1981
                                                                                                                                                              Carlander 1969
             10                    28                                                                                                                         Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                                                              Carlander 1969
             20                    31.7 2                                                                                                                     Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                                                              Carlander 1969
             21                                          21                                                                                                   Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                              Brown 1974
             25-6                  32.3                                                                                                                       Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                              Jinks et al 1981
             30                    33                    10.5                                                                                                 Madness & Hutchison 1980

2-3.9 g;                                                                                                                                                    Reference

adult (1 yr) 10                    28.2                          60.7782-2.000 30   29.5                                           Don R., Thornhill, Ont.
                                   31.7                           6.9970-0.1560 33  28.5                                           Don R., Thornhill, Ont.
             20                    33.2                                             34                                             Don R., Thornhill, Ont.
                                   -34                           41.3696-1.1317 36                                                 Lab
             30                                                                                34                                  Lab

larval       21                                                                                                >5760
                                                                                                                            33-34

5;
CD

          SPECIES: Pimephales promelas (fathead minnow)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                         Final      Lower           Acclimation Acclimation            PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                         Temperature Time                   Location
                                                         Preferendum Avoidance

                                                         28.5                                                          Lab                                  Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                       Lab                                  Coutant 1977a
adult                        32                          29         25                                                 Lab                                  Coutant 1977a
<74;                                                                                                                   Lab                                  Jobling 1981
50-100FL;                    28                          23.4                                                          Lab (rising temperatures)            Cherry et al 1977
50-100FL                                                                                                               Lab (rising temperatures)            Cherry et al 1977
50-100FL                                                 26.6                                                          Lab (rising temperatures)            Cherry et al 1977
50.100FL                                                                                                               Lab (rising temperatures)            Cherry et al 1977
50.100FL                     18                          19.5       9               12                                 Lab (rising temperatures)            Cherry et al 1977
50.100FL                                                                                                               Lab (rising temperatures)            Cherry et al 1977
50-100FL                     24                          21.2       12              15                                 Lab (rising temperatures)            Cherry et al 1977
50-100FL                                                                                                               Lab                                  Beltz et al 1974
50-100FL                     24                          20.9       15              18

                             27                          22         15              21

                             30                          25.4       21              24

                             33                          27.6       21              27

                             32                          28.7       24              30

                                                         22.6
SPECIES: Pimephales promelas (fathead minnow)

                                       (b)                                                                          GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age       Optimum         (a)  ST                  No Growth Limits                                         Reference
(mm)              "C
                           Range  MWAT Max                 Upper       Lower   Location                             Jobling 1981
                                                                                                                    Carlander 1969
                  26/25.5                                                                                           Beltz et al 1974
                                                                                                                    This study
                                                                       <2-7    experiment Alabama (winter)

                                                           32

                                  28   33

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Pimephales promelas (fathead minnow)

                                                                                                                    SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                  Season                                       (b)
                  and/or
c1                Accli-                                       ST Max          (c)       (c)                (d)
Et                mation                                                       Lethal    Lethal             Median
                  Temp                                         for     Accli-  Limit     Limit   Median     Lethal
           Event                                                                         Lower   Lethal     Final
                           Optimum Temp (a)                    Embryo mation   Upper             AT

                           Temp   Range MWAT                   Survival Time                                        Location                    Reference

spawning                                    15.6-17.8                                                               Lake, Que. (minimum temp) Scott and Crossman 1973
                           25                                                                                                                                    Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching (5d)

spawning

onset             SP       15.6                                                                                                                 Carlander 1969

spawning

cessation F                       15.6-18.4                                                                                                     Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                                                Carlander 1969
spawning Su                >27                                                                                                                  Gale and Buynak 1982
                                                                                                                                                Beltz et al 1974
spawning                          15.6-28.9                                                                         Outdoor exptal pool, Penn.  This study
                                                                                                                    Lab
spawning                   <23.5  <32

                                                       23      28

(a) MWAT - maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Rhinichthys atratulus (blacknose dace)

                                                                                                                          THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                Accli-  Accli-         Upper     Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                mation  mation         Incip.    Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age     Temp    Time    Sea-  Lethal     Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                             son  Temp       Temp                                                   (Min)
                                                         a  b                                                             Location                  Reference

                5                     25                                                                                                            Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                                                    Carlander 1969
                10                    27                                                                                                            Carlander 1969

                20                    29.3       1                                                                                                  Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                    Brown 1974
adult           5                     27                                                                                                            Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                    Brown 1974
adult           15                    29.3               19.8158-0.5771 31.5 30                                           Lab (Toronto, Ont.)       Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                    Brown 1974
adult           20                    29.3               24.5749-0.7061 33 30                                             Lab (Toronto, Ont.)       Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                    Brown 1974
adult           25                    29.3               20.1840-0.5389 35 32                                             Lab (Toronto, Ont.)       Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                    Brown 1974
Z-3.9; adult 5                        26.5               77.1877-2.7959 27.5 27                                           Lab (Don. R., Ont.)       Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                    Brown 1974
2-3.9; adult 10                       28.8               49.1469-1.6021 30.5 29.5                                         Lab (Don. R., Ont.)       Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                    Brown 1974
2-3.9; adult 15                       29.6               19.6975-0.5734 31.5 30                                           Lab (Don. R., Ont.)       Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                    Houston 1982
2-3.9; adult 20                       29.3       2.2     26.5952-0.7719 33.5 29.5                                         Lab (Don. R., Ont.)       Houston 1982
                                                                                                                                                    Houston 1982
2-3.9; adult 25                       29.3       5       23.5765-0.6629 34 30                                   29.5      Lab (Don. R., Ont.)       Houston 1982

                   5            W                                                  27                   50                Lab (Toronto, Ont.)

                10              W                                                  30                   40                Lab (Toronto, Ont.)

                15              W                                                  31.5                 50                Lab (Toronto, Ont.)

                20              W                                                  33                   20                Lab (Toronto, Ont.)

                25              W                                                  34                   20                Lab (Toronto, Ont.)

                28              W                                                  35.5                 15                Lab (Toronto, Ont.)

                7.2                   31.7                                                                                Lab (2 F/h) Penn.

adult                                                                                                           29.3

                20                    29.9                                                                                Lab (16 h day/8 h night)
                                      28.8
                20                    30                                                                                  Lab (8 h day/l6 h night)

                20                                                                                                        Lab (24 h day/O h night)

                                                                                                                31.9
SPECIES: Rhinichthys atratulus (blacknose dace)

                                                                                                                              SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

               Season  Optimum Temp (a)                      (b)           Accli-  (c)     (c)              Median  (d)
               and/or                                        ST Max        mation  Lethal  Lethal           Lethal  Median
Event         Accli-   Temp          Range M W A T           for           Time    Limit   Limit            AT      Lethal    Location                  Reference
             mation                                          Embryo                        Lower                    Final
              Temp                                           Survival              Upper

spawning               21.1                                                                                                   Upstate N.Y.              Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning                                                                                                                                                Brown 1974
spawning                             16-22.2                                                                                  W. Va.                    Brown 1974
spawning                                                                                                                      N.Y.
                                        15.6-17.8                                                                                                       This study
spawning               22.2                                                                                                   Mink R.; Valley R., Man.  Bartnik 1970
onset
                                                   21        22.2

                       19

(a) MWAT - maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

SPECIES: Rhinichthys cataractae (longnose dace)

                                                                                                                              THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-    Accli-         Upper        Lower     log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation    mation         Incip.       Incip.                  Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp      Time    Sea-  Lethal        Lethal    a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                           son   Temp          Temp                                                     (Min)
                                                             a          b                                                     Location                  Reference

             15                                                                                                     31.4      Lab (N.Y.)                Spotila et al 1979

SPECIES: Rhinichthys cataractae (longnose dace)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                   Final           Lower           Acclimation Acclimation          PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                      Night Avoidance                                          Temperature Time                 Location
                                                   Preferendum Avoidance                                                                                 Reference

             W                                     1o-19.7                                                          heated discharge into                Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                        Brazo et al 1978
95-l 34;     S         P                           8-14            5.2                                                Delaware R., Penn.                Brazo et al 1978
51-104;                                                                                                             L. Michigan                         Brazo et al 1978
32-116;      su                                    1o-22.7
                                                                                                                      (nearshore occurrence)
             F                                     7.2-14.7                                                         L. Michigan
                                                                                                                     (nearshore occurrence)
                                                                                                                    L. Michigan
                                                                                                                     (nearshore occurrence)
SPECIES: Rhinichthys cataractae (longnose dace)

Size or Age  Optimum         (a)      ST         No Growth Limits                                    GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
(mm)         "C                                                                                      Reference
                      Range  MWAT Max            Upper   Lower     Location                          Brazo et al 1978

                                                         (1.2      L. Michigan (fall nearshore last
                                                                    occurrence)

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Rhinichthys cataractae (longnose dace)

                                                                                                     SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                              (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                              ST Max            (c)       (c)             (4)
             mation                                                Lethal    Lethal          Median
             Temp                                for     Accli-    Limit     Limit   Median  Lethal
                                                                             Lower   Lethal  Final
                      Optimum T e m p ( a )      Embryo mation     Upper             AT

Event                 Temp   Range M W A T       Survival Time                                       Location                             Reference

spawning              11.7                                                                           Nicola R., B.C.                      Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching
                      15.6                                                                           Manitoba                             Scott and Crossman 1973
 (7-10d)
spawning              >8                                                                             L. Michigan                          Brazo et al 1978
                                                                                                     L. Michigan                          Brazo et al 1978
 migration Sp                14-19                                                                   L. Winnipeg                          Brazo et al 1978
spawning                                                                                                                                  This study
spawning              15                                                                             L. Winnipeg                          Gee and Machniak 1972

spawning                              15         20

                             15.5-20

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Semotilus atromaculatus (creek chub)

             Accli-   Accli-         Upper     Lower      log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical  THERMAL TOLERANCES:
             mation   mation         Incip.    Incip.                   Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal   Location
Size or Age  Temp     Time    Sea-  Lethal     Lethal     a f b (tamp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                           son  Temp       Tem                                                       (Min)
                                                       p         b                                                                                   Reference

             5                      24.7                                                                                                             Carlander 1969
             10                     27                                                                                                               Carlander 1969
             17.1-                  30.1-30.5                                                                                                        Carlander 1969
             17.5
             20                     30         1.0                                                                                                   Carlander  1969
             21-21.9                                                                                                                                 Carlander  1969
             22.8                   31.8       1.7                                                                                                   Carlander  1969
             25-26                                                                                                                                   Carlander  1969
                                    32.1
             5
             10                     32.6
             15
2-3.9 g;                            24.7               42.1859-1.6021 26      25                                 30.3      Don Ft., Thornhill, Ont.  Brown 1974
adult        25                                                                                                                                      Brown 1974
             10                     27.3                  31.0755-1.0414 29   28                                           Don R., Thornhill, Ont.   Brown 1974
20                                                                                                                                                   Brown 1974
             15                     29.3               20.8055-0.6226 31      30                                           Don R., Thornhill, Ont.   Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                     Brown 1974
             20                     30.3       0.7     21.0274-0.5933 33.5 30.5                                            Don R., Thornhill, Ont.

             25                     30.3       4.5        16.8951-0.4499 35   31                                           Don R., Thornhill, Ont.

             30                     27.5                                29    28      29                 55      31.5      Toronto, Ont.;

             7.2                                                                                                           Knoxville, Tenn.

                                    29                    20.8055-0.6226 31   30      31                 35                Toronto, Ont.;            Brown 1974

                                                                                                                           Knoxville, Tenn.

                                    30.5                  19.1315-0.5328 33   30.5 33                    30                Toronto, Ont.;            Brown 1974

                                                                                                                           Knoxville, Tenn.

                                    31.5                  19.3186-0.4717 36   32      35.5               50                Toronto, Ont.;            Brown 1974

                                                                                                                           Knoxville, Tenn.

                                    31.5                  22.8982-0.5844 37   33      37                 20                Toronto, Ont.;            Brown 1974

                                                                                                                           Knoxville. Tenn.

                                    31.1                                                                                   Lab (Delaware R; 2F/h)    Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                     McFarlane et al 1976
                                                                                                                 32.3      Lab (Savannah R., 4C/h)

SPECIES: Semotilus atromaculatus (creek chub)

                                                                                                                           SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

Event        Season   Optimum       Temp (a)           (b)            Accli-  Id      (d                 Median  (d)       Location                  Reference
             and/or   Temp          Range M W A T      ST Max         mation  Lethal  Lethal             Lethal  Median
             Accli-                                    for            Time    Limit   Limit              AT      Lethal
             mation                                    Embryo                         Lower                      Final
             Temp                                      Survival               Upper

spawning              12.8          12.8-26.7                                                                                Illinois                Scott and Crossman 1973
 onset                >14                                                                                              Manitoba                      Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                     Brown 1974
spawning                                                                                                                                             This study
spawning

                                               19.8       27

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum. or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Semotilus corporalis (fall fish)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                            Final                 Lower    Acclimation Acclimation       PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                                Temperature Time              Location
                                                            Preferendum Avoidance                                                                 Reference

                                                        28                                                               Eastern U.S.             Scott and Crossman 1973
SPECIES: Semotilus corporalis (fall fish)

                                                                                                                           SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                                        (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                                        ST Max          (c)     (c)              (d)
             mation                                                                        Lethal  Lethal
             Temp                                                          for     Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median Median
                                                                                                   Lower
                     Optimum  Temp (a)                                     Embryo mation   Upper           Lethal Lethal
                     Temp     Range M W A T
Event                                                                      Survival Time                   AT       Final  Location               Reference

nest

building             12                                                                                                    Brome L., Que.         Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                           Brome L., Que.         Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning             16.6                                                                                                                         This study

                                                            16.6           28

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

SPECIES: Semotilus margarita (pearl dace)

                                                                                                                           SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                                        (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                                        ST Max          (c)     (4)              (d)
             mation                                                                        Lethal  Lethal
             Temp                                                          for     Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median Median
                                                                                                   Lower
                     Optimum Temp (a)                                      Embryo mation   Upper           Lethal Lethal

Event                Temp                                   Range M W A T  Survival Time                   AT       Final  Location               Reference

spawning             17.2                                                                                                  Pentwater R., Mich.    Scott and Crossman 1983
                                                                                                                           Pine Ck., Mich.        Scott and Crossman 1983
spawning             18.3                                                                                                                         This study

                                                            17.2           >18.3

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Carassius auratus (goldfish)

                                                                                                                THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-                Upper   Lower   log time -             Expo-       Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation                Incip.  Incip.                                     tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-                  Lethal  a + b (temp)    Data Limits sure   Time    (Max)
(mm)                          son         Lethal   Temp                                       (Min)
                                          Temp             a  b            Upper  Lower Temp                    Location             Reference

             5-30                    38.6                                                             36.6                           Jobing 1981
             5-40                    40                                                                                              Jobing 1981
             23.9                    29-38.6                                                          >35       Lab                  Spotila et al 1979
             19                      29.9-41                                                                                         Spotila et al 1979
             24                                                                                       41                             Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
             38                                    1.0                                                                               Houston 1982
             l-2                                   5.0                                                >25.3     Lab                  Houston 1982
             9.3                                   15.5                                                                              Houston 1982
                                     28                    20.0213-0.4523                                                            Houston 1982
             10              F                             21.9234-0.4773                                                            Reutter and Herdendorf
             35                                                                                                                      1976(a)
larval       32                                    0                                                            Lab                  Leidy and Jenkins 1977
             38                      40.5                                                                                            Leidy and Jenkins 1977
             21-23                                                                                              Lab                  Brown 1974
                                     39.3                                                                                            Brown 1974
             25                       38.5                                                                      Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
             5                        37.5                                                                                           Jinks et al 1981
                                                                                                                                     Jinks et al 1981
                                                                                                      37.6      Lab                  Talmage and Countant 1979
                                                                                                                                     Talmage and Countant 1979
                                                                                                      32        Lab

(a) hybrid C. carpio x Carassius auratus

SPECIES: Carassius auratus (goldfish)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                   Final      Lower        Acclimation Acclimation        PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                Temperature Time               Location
                                                   Preferendum Avoidance                                                             Reference

small                        33                    30                                                   Lab                          Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                        Lab                          Coutant 1977a
small                                              28.1                                                 Lab                          Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                      Lab                            Coutant 1977a
adult        w                                     24.2                                                 Lab                          Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                        Lab                          Coutant 1977a
adult        SP                                    25.3                                                 Lab                          Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                        Lab                          Talmage and Coutant 1979
adult        su                                    27.0                                                                              Talmage and Coutant 1980
                                                                                                                                     Talmage and Coutant 1980
adult        F                                     24.0                                                                              Talmage and Coutant 1980

medium                                             27.9

                                                   29.7                                       26-30
                                                                                              15
80-100 mm                                          19.2                                       25

                                                   26

                                                   28
SPECIES: Carassiusauratus (goldfish)

                                              (b)                                                        GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age   Optimum                  (a)    ST      No Growth Limits                                   Reference
(mm)          "C
                       Range           MWAT Max       Upper  Lower      Location                         Jobing 1981
                                                                                                         Leidy and Jenkins 1977
Juvenile      25                                                                                         This study

              28.1                     30.4 32

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Carassius auratus (goldfish)

                                                                                                         SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

              Season   Optimum T e m p ( a )          M         Accli-  (c)       (4)            (d)
              and/or                                  ST Max    mation  Lethal    Lethal Median  Median
Event         Accli-   Temp            Range M W A T  for       Time    Limit     Limit Lethal   Lethal  Location                       Reference
              mation                                  Embryo                      L o w e r ilT  Final
              Temp                                    Survival          Upper

incubation                             18.5-29.5                                                                                        Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning                                                                                                                                Scott and Crossman 1973
1st hatching                           18.4-24.9                                                                                        Carlander 1969
spawning                                                                                                                                Talmage and Coutant 1978
                                       15.5-18.4                                                                                        This Study

                                       17-24

                                                  24  29.5

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.

(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Carpoides cyprinus (quillback)

                                                                                                                              THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-               Upper   Lower   log time =                                 Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation               Incip.  Incip.                   Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-        Lethal   Lethal  -a + b -(temp)-  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                          son        Temp     Temp                                                      (Min)
                                                          a       b                                                           Location             Reference

             23.3                                                                                                   37.2      Lab                  Spotila et al 1979

SPECIES: Carpoides cyprinus (quillback)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                  Final        Lower          Acclimation Acclimation               PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                   Temperature Time                      Location
                                                  Preferendum Avoidance                                                                            Reference

adult        F                                    22.1                                                              Lab                            Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                    Wabash, R., Ind.               Coutant 1977a
large                        34.5                              27.0                                                 J.M. Stuart, GS, Ohio R.,      Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                                                    Ind.                           Yoder and Gammon 1976
             su                                   26.32                                                             J.M. Stuart, GS, Ohio R.,
                                                                                                                    Ind.
             W                                    1O-16

SPECIES: Carpoides cyprinus (quillback)

                                                                                                                              SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                       (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                       ST Max              (c)     (c)                           (d)
             mation                                                           Lethal  Lethal                        Median
             Temp                                         for         Accli-  Limit   Limit                 Median  Lethal
                                                                                      Lower                 Lethal  Final
                     Optimum Temp (a)                     Embryo mation       Upper                         AT

Event                Temp          Range M W A T          Survival Time                                                       Location             Reference

spawning                           19-28                                                                                      Four Mile Ck., Ohio  Talmage 1978
                                                                                                                                                   This study
                                                  23.5    28

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperaturesas defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Catostomus catostomus (longnose sucker)

                                                                                                                         THERMAL TOLERANCES:

              Accli-  Accli-         Upper     Lower    log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
              mation  mation         Incip.    Incip.                                                  tance   Thermal
Size or Age   Temp    Time    Sea-  Lethal     Lethal   a + b (temp)  Data Limits- - s u r e           Time    (Max)
(mm)                           son  Temp       Temp                   Upper Lower Temp                 (Min)
                                                        a       b                                                        Location             Reference

44 9;         14                    26.5                                                                                                      Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                              Carlander 1969
44 9;         11.5                  27

SPECIES: Catostomus catostomus (longnose sucker)

Size or Age   Season Day or Upper              Final         Lower          Acclimation Acclimation            PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                         Night Avoidance                                Temperature Time                   Location
                                               Preferendum Avoidance                                                                          Reference

                                               11-11.6                                                         Moosehead L., Me.              Coutant 1977a
                                               8-17                                                            Pt. Beach, L. Michigan         Michaud 1981
                                               8                                                               Escanaba, L. Michigan          Michaud 1981

SPECIES: Catostomus catostomus (longnose sucker)

                                                                                                                         SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

              Season                                    Ni
              and/or
              Accli-                                    ST Max              (cl     (cl                        (dl
              mation                                                        Lethal  Lethal                     Median
              Temp                                      for         Accli-  Limit   Limit              Median  Lethal
                                                                                    Lower              Lethal  Final
                      Optimum       Temp (a)            Embryo mation       Upper                      AT
                      Temp          Range MWAT
Event                                                   Survival Time                                                    Location             Reference

spawning run          5                                                                                                  B.C.                 Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching                                1o-15                                                                            B.C.                 Scott and Crossman 1973
(8-11d)
migration                           11-14                                                                                Pyramid L., Sask     Brown 1974
spawning                                                                                                                 Gt. Slave Lake       Brown 1974
spawning              >15                                                                                                Stream               Fuiman and Witman 1979
                                                                                                                                              This study
                      5

                                               5-10     13

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Catostomus commersoni (white sucker)

                                                                                                                         THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                             Upper             Lower                                                  Resis-
                                               Incip.                                                 tance
             Accli-  Accli-  Incip.            Lethal  log time --                             Expo-  Time    Critical
             mation                            Temp                  Data Limits sure                 (Min)   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    mation Sea- Lethal                a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                         (Max)
(mm)
                     Time son Temp                     a  b                                                              Location               Reference

             19              SP                                                                               31.6       Lab                    Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
             5                       26                                                                                                         Brown 1974
Juvenile                                                                         26                   310
larvae/      10                                                                  28                                                             Brown 1974
 Juvenile    15              28                                                                       310                                       EPA 1974
larvae       15                                                                                                                                 EPA 1974
Juvenile     20              31                                                                                                                 Brown 1974
Juvenile     21                                                                                                                                 EPA 1974
larvae       25              29                                                                                                                 Brown 1974
Juvenile     25-26                                                                                                                              Brown 1974
Juvenile     5               29                2-3                               29                   2000                                      Brown 1974
1-2 yr       10                                                                                                                                 Brown 1974
             15              30                6                                                                                                Brown 1974
Juvenile     20                                                                                                                                 Brown 1974
             25              29                6                                 29                                                             Brown 1974
larval                                                                                                                                          Brown 1974
newly                        31                                                  31                   720                                       Brown 1974
  hatched                                                                                                                                       Brown 1974
swim-up                      26.3                      33.6957-1.1797 27.5 27                                                                   Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                Brown 1974
newly                        27.7                      19.9890-0.6410 29 29                                                                     Brown 1974
 hatched                                                                                                                                        Jinks et al 1981
larvae                       29.3                      31.9007-1.0036 30  29.5                                                                  Jinks et al 1981
                                                                                                                                                Jinks et al 1981
                             29.3              2.5     27.0023-0.8068 31.5 30
                                                                                                                                                McCormick et al 1977
                             28.3              6.6     22.2209-0.6277 32.5 29.5                                                                 McCormick et al 1977
                                                                                                                                                McCormick et al 1977
                                                                                                              35.1-36.1                         McCormick et al 1977

                             31.4                                                                                        Nova Scotia R.         McCormick et al 1977
                             30-33.3                                                                                     Power plant discharge  McCormick et al 1977
                             35                                                                                                                 Crippen & Fahmy 1981
             32.2            30                                                  35                   600                                       Spotila et al 1979
             7.2             31                                                  30                   600
             11.1            28.3-28.8                                           31                   2160
             9-10            30-31.1
             15-16           30.5-31.7
             21

             21.2 7d         >28.2 4.8                                                                                   Lab
             21.1 7d                                                                                                     Lab
             15.8 7d         30.5              6.1                                                                       Lab
             10.0 7d                                                                                                     Lab
                             30.7

                             28.1

             15.2 7d         30.0              4.8                                                                       Lab

             8.9     7d      28.6                                                                                        Lab

                             30.2                                                                                        Lab

                                                                                                              32.7       (temp. incr. 1 c/h)
SPECIES: Catostomus commersoni (white sucker)

Size or Age   Season Day or Upper                  Final         Lower      Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                         Night Avoidance                                Temperature Time         Location
                                                   Preferendum Avoidance                                                                   Reference

                                                   20.6                                              Wisconsin lakes                       Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                     Moosehead L. Me.                      Coutant 1977a
                                                   18.3                                              Horse tooth Res., Colo                Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                     Lab                                   Coutant 1977a
large                                              18.9-21.1                                                                               Brown 1974
                                                                                                     Discharge                             Brown 1974
adult         F                                    22.4                                                                                    Brown 1974
                                                                                                     Point Beach L Mich.                   Haymes 1984
                                                   14.1-18.3     <5                                  Ohio R.                               Michaud 1981
                                                                                                     Ohio R.                               Yoder and Gammon 1976
                              20.6                               11.8                                                                      Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                                     Oswego or Pickering GS                EPA 1978a
              SP              >29.4                23.9                     17.2                       L. Ontario                          McCormick et al 1977
              su                                                                                                                           Wyman 1981
              Year            20                                 14                                  Lab
              su                                                                                     New River, Va.                        Reynolds and Casterlin 1978
              F               17                                 8                                   Connecticut R., Conn.                 Reynolds and Casterlin 1978
                                                                                                     (mean field occurrence)               Marcy 1976a
                                                   25-27                                             Jack L., Ont.
                                                                                                                                           Corbett and Powles 1983
                                                   16-19

                                                   24

                              31.2

adult                                              19-21

                              26.1                 24.1          22.8

                                                   26.7

                              19.9                 14.4          10

Larval                        30

SPECIES: Catostomus commersoni (white sucker)

                                              (b)                                                    GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                     Reference
Size or Age   Optimum             (a)         ST          No Growth Limits
(mm)          "C
                       Range      MWAT Max                Upper      Lower  Location

larvae        27       24-27 28               30                                                     EPA 1974
                                                                                                     EPA 1974
100; juvenile 24       12-29                                         <12    Lab                      EPA 1974
                                                                            Lab                      EPA 1978b
4-5 mg; larva 26.9                                                          Lab (summer)             EPA 1978b
                                                                            Lab (winter)             McCormick et al 1977
100; juvenile 26                                                            Lab                      Smagula and Adelman 1982
                                                                            Lab                      Adelman 1980
       juvenile 24                                                          Lab                      Adelman 1980
                                                                            Lab
       larvae 26.9     15.7-26.9                          29.7       10

       adult  24       12-30
                       12-30
104; age I    24

263; age II   24

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum -? 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.
SPECIES: Catostomus commersoni (white sucker)

                                                                                               SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

              Season                           (b)
              and/or
              Accli-                           ST Max          (c)     (4)             (4)
              mation                                           Lethal  Lethal          Median
              Temp                             far     Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median  Lethal
                                                                       Lower   Lethal  Final
                        Optimum Temp (a)       Embryo mation   Upper           AT

Event                   Temp   Range M W A T   Survival Time                                   Location                  Reference

spawning                10     4-18       10   21                                                                        EPA 1974
incubation/             15                     <24.1
                               8-21                                                                                      EPA 1974
 hatch                  15.2   1o-20                                                                                     Brown 1974
spawning                17.8                                                                                             Moore 1979(d)
heat shock    12                                                               20      32      Lab
incubation/             11.16                                                                                            McCormick et al 1977
              6.2-42.1  23.4   9-17.2                          24.1    6.2                     Lab                       McCormick et al 1977
 hatch                  23.8   27.2                                                                                      Edsall and Yocum 1972
spawning      16        211.8                                                                  Lab                       Edsall and Yocum 1972
cold shock    20        16.8                                           0       -16             Lab                       Edsall and Yocum 1972
cold shock    25                                                       3       -17             Lab                       Coutant 1977b
cold shock    33-34                                                    6       -19             Sandusky, R. (L. Erie)    Coutant 1977b
cold shock    27                                                       10      -13             Susquehanna R.            Crippen and Fahmy 1981
cold shock    12.2                                                     2       -25             Lab, simulated onshore
heat shock                                                                     +20.6                                     Crippen and Fahmy 1981
                                                                                                discharge
              12.2                                                             +23.5           Lab, simulated tempering  Crippen and Fahmy 1981

              12.2                                                             i-23.3           discharge                Fuiman 1979
                                                                                               Lab, simulated offshore   Marcy 1976b
spawning                       12.2-24                                                                                   Marcy 1976b
spawning                       14.0-24                                                          discharge
larval dev.                                                                                    N.Y. and Penn.            Corbett and Powles 1983
spawning                       3-16.5                                                          Connecticut R., Conn.     Corbett and Powles 1983
                               10-16.9-k                                                       Connecticut R., Conn.
 migration                                                                                                               Corbett and Powles 1983
spawning                       6-16.8                                                          Jack L., Ont.
larval dev.                                                                                    Jack L., Ont.
(9-11 mm TL)
                                                                                               Jack L., Ont.

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Erimyzon sucetta (lake chubsucker)

                                                                                                                SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                   (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                   ST Max              (c)     (c)                 (d)
             mation                                                       Lethal  Lethal              Median
             Temp                                     for         Accli-  Limit   Limit       Median  Lethal
                                                                                  Lower       Lethal  Final
                     Optimum Temp (a)                 Embryo mation       Upper               AT

Event                Temp          Range MWAT         Survival Time                                             Location             Reference

hatching                           22-29.5                                                                                           Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                     Fuiman 1979
(6.7d)                             15-22                                                                        N.Y. and Penn.       This study
spawning                                                                                                        (E. oblongus)

                                             18.5     22

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

SPECIES: Hypentelium nigricans (northern hog sucker)

                                                                                                                THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-         Upper    Lower    log time =                  Expo-       Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation         Incip.   Incip.                                           tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-  Lethal    Lethal   a + b (temp)   Data Limits sure         Time    (Max)
(mm)                          son  Temp      Temp                                             (Min)
                                                          a   b           Upper   Lower Temp                    Location             Reference

             15                                                                                       30.8                           Kowalski et al 1978
                                                                                                                      Lab            Cherry et al 1977
             18-33                 33                                                                                                Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                                                     Cherry et al 1977
             18                    27                                                                                                Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                                                     Cherry et al 1977
             21                    30                                                                                                Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                                                     Cherry et al 1977
             24                    33

             27                    33

             30                    33

             33                    34
SPECIES: Hypentelium nigricans (northern hog sucker)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                    Final         Lower        Acclimation Acclimation       PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                    Temperature Time              Location
                                                    Preferendum Avoidance                                                                     Reference

50-100 FL;                                          26.6                       12                            Lab (rising water temperatures)  Jobling 1981
50-100 FL;                                          15.3                                                                                      Cherry et al 1977
50-100 FL;                                          20.2                       15                            Lab (rising water temperatures)  Cherry et al 1977
50-100 FL;                                          16.9                                                                                      Cherry et al 1977
 50-100 FL;                                         23                         18                            Lab (rising water temperatures)  Cherry et al 1977
50-100 FL;                                          27                                                                                        Cherry et al 1977
 50-100 FL;                                         28.7                       21                            Lab (rising water temperatures)  Cherry et al 1977
 50-100 FL;                                         29.4                                                                                      Cherry et al 1977
 50-100 FL;                                         28.8                       24                            Lab (rising water temperatures)  Cherry et al 1977
                                                    28.6                                                                                      Cherry et al 1977
                                                    29.2                       27                            Lab (rising water temperatures)  Cherry et al 1977
                                                    25.2                                                                                      Brown 1974
                                                                               30                            Lab (rising water temperatures)

                                                                               33                            Lab (rising water temperatures)

                                                                                                             Lab (rising water temperatures)

                                                                                                             Wabash Ft., Ind.

SPECIES: Hypentelium nigricans (northern hog sucker)

                                             M                                                                   GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                                 Reference
Size or Age  Optimum               (a)       ST            No Growth Limits
(mm)         "C
                        Range      MWAT Max                Upper       Lower   Location

                        13.3-15.5                                              Annulus formation                 Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                 Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                       310                                       Jobling 1981
                                                                                                                 This study
             25.8/25.3

                                   28.1         30

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = Optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Hypentelium nigricans (northern hog sucker)

                                                                                                                 SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                        (b)                 (c)       (c)            (d)
             and/or                                        ST Max              Lethal    Lethal
             Accli-                                        for         Accli-  Limit     Limit    Median Median
             mation                                        Embryo      mation            Lower
             Temp       Optimum Temp (a)                   Survival    Time    Upper              Lethal Lethal

Event                   Temp       Range MWAT                                                     AT    Final    Location                     Reference

spawning                           >15.6                                                                         N.Y. and Penn.               Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning                           12-23                                                                         Lab                          Fuiman 1979
hatching                           17.4                                                                                                       Buynak and Mohr, Jr. 1978
(10d)
                                                                                                                                              This study
                                                17.5       23

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.

(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.

(~1 Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (19461.

(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Ictiobus cyprinellus (bigmouth buffalo)

Size or Age      Season Day or Upper              Final        Lower       Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                            Night Avoidance                            Temperature Time         Location
                                                  Preferendum Avoidance                                                       Reference

large                         34.5                             27                                   Wabash R., Ind.           Coutant 1977a
                      W                                                                             (buffalo sp.)             Yoder and Gammon 1976
                      F                           6-24                                              J.M. Stuart GS. Ohio R.,  Yoder and Gammon 1987
                      su                                                                            Ohio (I. bubalus)         Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                  18-26                                             J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R.,
                                                                                                    Ohio (I. bubalus)
                                                  22-23                                             J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R.,
                                                                                                    Ohio (I. bubalus)

SPECIES: Ictiobus cyprinellus (bigmouth buffalo)

                                                                                                            SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

w                Season   Optimum    Temp         (a)    (b)       Accli-  (4      (Cl     Median   (4      Location          Reference
m                and/or   Temp       Range        MWAT   ST Max    mation  Lethal  Lethal  Lethal   Median
Ln               Accli-                                  for       Time    Limit   Limit   AT       Lethal
                 mation                                  Embryo                    Lower            Final
          Event  Temp                                    Survival          Upper

spawning                  15.5-18.3                                                                                           Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning                                                                                                                      Carlander 1969
                                     14.4-26.7                                                                                EPA 1974
spawning
hatching                                          17     27                                                                   EPA 1974
                                                                                                                              EPA 1974
                          17                                                                                                  This study

                                     14-27

                                                  17     26.7

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Minytrema melanops (spotted sucker)

                                                                                                                       THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-         Upper     Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation         Incip.    Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-             Lethal  a $ b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                          son  Lethal     Temp                                                   (Min)
                                   Temp               a       b                                                        Location             Reference
                                                                                                                                            Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
             20              SU                                                                              >31       Lab

SPECIES: Minytrema melanops (spotted sucker)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper              Final         Lower         Acclimation Acclimation            PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                      Night Avoidance                                 Temperature Time                   Location
                                              Preferendum Avoidance                                                                         Reference

             SU                               25-27                                                          J.M. Stuart, GS, Ohio R.,      Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                                             J.M. Stuart, GS, Ohio R.,      Yoder and Gammon 1976
             F                                16-19

SPECIES: Minytrema melanops (spotted sucker)

                                                                                                                       SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                   (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                   ST Max              (Cl     (cl                        (4
             mation                                                       Lethal  Lethal Median              Median
             Temp                                     for         Accli-  Limit   Limit Lethal               Lethal
                                                                                  L o w e r ilT              Final
                     Optimum Temp (a)                 Embryo mation       Upper

Event                Temp          Range MWAT         Survival Time                                                    Location             Reference

spawning                           15-17.8                                                                             Oklahoma             Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                            This study
                                              16.4    17.8

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
    SPECIES: Moxostoma anisurum (silver redhorse)

                                                                                                              SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                 Season                                     (b)
                 and/or
                 Accli-                                     ST Max           (c)     (c)              (d)
                 mation                                                      Lethal  Lethal
                 Temp                                       for      Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median   Median
                                                                                     Lower   Lethal
                         Optimum Temp (a)                   Embryo mation    Upper           AT       Lethal

    Event                Temp        Range M W A T          Survival Time                             Final   Location               Reference

    spawning             13.3                                                                                                        Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                     Carlander 1969
    spawning             13.5                                                                                                        This study

                                                   13.5

    SPECIES: Moxostoma macrolepidotum (shorthead redhorse)

    Size or Age  Season Day or Upper               Final         Lower       Acclimation Acclimation       PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
    (mm)                        Night Avoidance                              Temperature Time              Location
                                                   Preferendum Avoidance                                                             Reference

                               37.2                                                                                                  Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                     Coutant 1977
    large                      26                                22                                        Wabash R., Ind.
                                                                                                           (Moxostoma sp.)           Yoder and Gammon 1976
w
N                                                  26-27.5

-4

    SPECIES: Moxostoma macrolepidotum (shorthead redhorse)

                                                                                                              SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                 Season                                     k-d
                 and/or
                 Accli-                                     ST Max           (c)     (c)              (d)
                 mation                                                      Lethal  Lethal           Median
                 Temp                                       for      Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median   Lethal
                                                                                     Lower   Lethal   Final
                         Optimum Temp (a)                   Embryo mation    Upper           AT

    Event                Temp        Range M W A T          Survival Time                                     Location               Reference

    spawning             11                                                                                   Iowa                   Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                              Big Rock Ck, III.      Talmage and Coutant 1978
    spawning             16                                                                                   Susquehanna R., Penn.  Buynak and Mohr, Jr. 1979
                                                                                                              Lab                    Buynak and Mohr, Jr. 1979
    spawning             12

    hatching             15.6

                                                   13.5     16+                                                                      This study

    (a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum. or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
    (b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
    (c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
    (d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
     SPECIES: Ictalurus melas (black bullhead)

                                                                                                                           THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                  Accli-  Accli-         Upper    Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                  mation  mation         Incip.   Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
     Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-  Lethal    Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
     (mm)                          son  Temp      Temp                                                   (Min)
                                                          a         b                                                      Location             Reference
     YOY
     YOY                                                     -                                                                                  Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                                                Spotila et al 1979
                  23                       35                                                                                                   Jinkes et al 1981
                  33-37           s u 35.7                                                                                                      Talmage 1978
                                  SU 35.7
                                  su 35.7                                              35.7              2880              Lab
                                                                                                                           Mississippi R.
                                                                                                                 37.5

     SPECIES: Ictalurus melas (black bullhead)

     Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final         Lower          Acclimation Acclimation           PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
     (mm)                        Night Avoidance                               Temperature Time                  Location
                                                  Preferendum Avoidance                                                                         Reference

     juvenile     su              35                                                                             Discharge L. Monona            Beltz et al 1974
                                                                                                                 Steam GS, Wisc.                Beltz et al 1974
                  W               14                                                                             Discharge L. Monona
                                                                                                                 Steam GS, Wisc.
c-'
N
co

     SPECIES: Ictalurus melas (black bullhead)

                                                                                                                           SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                  Season  Optimum Temp (a)                (b)          Accli-  (c)     (c)               Median  (d)
                  and/or                                  ST Max       mation  Lethal  Lethal            Lethal  Median
     Event        Accli-  Temp          Range MWAT        for          Time    Limit   Limit             AT      Lethal    Location             Reference
                  mation                                  Embryo                       Lower                     Final
                  Temp                                    Survival             Upper

     spawning             21                                                                                                                    Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                                This study
                                                  21

     (a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
     (b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for SPiWning.
     (c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
     (d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
   SPECIES: Ictalurus natalis (yellow bullhead)

                                                                                                                THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                Accli-  Accli-         Upper     Lower   log time =                    Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                mation  mation         Incip.    Incip.                                       tance   Thermal
   Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-             Lethal  a + b (tem- p)  Da-ta Limits  sure   Time    (Max)
   (mm)                          son  Lethal     Temp                                         (Min)
                                      Temp               a  b            Upper Lower Temp                       Location             Reference

                22.2            su                                                                    36.4                           Spotila et al 1979

   SPECIES: Ictalurus natalis (yellow bullhead)

   Size or Age  Season Day or Upper              Final      Lower        Acclimation Acclimation      PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
   (mm)                        Night Avoidance                           Temperature Time             Location
                                                 Preferendum Avoidance                                                               Reference

r  adult        su                               28.3                                                 Lab                            Coutant 1977a
                                                 28.8                                                                                Coutant 1977a
tz juvenile                                      27.6                                                                                Coutant 1977a

   adult
SPECIES: Ictalurus nebulosus (brown bullhead)                                                                                                                  Page 1 of 2

                                                                                                                        THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-        Upper       Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation        Incip.      Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-  Lethal      Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                         son   Temp        Temp                                                   (Min)
                                                       a  b                                                             Location                    Reference

                                   36. I                                                                                                            Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                                    Carlander 1969
             5-6                   28.6-29                                                                                                          Carlander 1969
             10                                                                                                                                     Carlander 1969
             20                    30-30.2                                                                                                          Carlander 1969
             25                                                                                                                                     Carlander 1969
             30                    33-33.4 -1/+1                                                                                                    Carlander 1969
             36                                                                                                                                     Carlander 1969
             37-38                 35.5        1.3                                                                                                  Spotila et al 1979
             10                                                                                                                                     Spotila et al 1979
             20                    36.5-37 3.7                                                                                                      Spotila et al 1979
             25                                                                                                                                     Spotila et al 1979
             30                    37.5        7.0                                                                                                  Spotila et al 1979
             5                                                                                                                                      Spotila et al 1979
             10                    37.2                                                                                                             Spotila et al 1979
             I5                                                                                                                                     Spotila et al 1979
             20                    29                                                                                                               Spotila et al 1979
             25                                                                                                                                     Spotila et al 1979
             30                    32.3                                                                                                             Spotila et al 1979
             35                                                                                                                                     Spotila et al 1979
             40                    33.7                                                                                                             Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                                    Spotila et al 1979
             23                    34.7                                                                                                             Spotila et al 1979
             5                                                                                                                                      Spotila et al 1979
                                   29.9                                                                                                             Spotila et al 1979
             10                                                                                                                                     Spotila et al 1979
                                   31.5                                                                                                             Brown 1974
             15
                                   33                                                                                                               Brown 1974
             20
                                   35                                                                                                               Brown 1974
             25
                                   37.5                                                                                                             Brown 1974
             30
                                   39                                                                                                               Brown 1974
             34
                                   41                                                                                                               Brown 1974

                                   41                                                                                                               Brown 1974

                             SU 35.5                                                                                                                Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                    Brown 1974
                             w 29.0                                                                                                                 Brown 1974

                             SP 29.1-32.6                                                                               Algonquin Pk., stream Ont.
                             su 33.2-35.5
                                                                                                                        Florida to Ontario
                             F 32.9                                                                                     (combined)
                                                                                                                        Florida to Ontario
                             su                                                                               37.8      (combined)
                                                                                                              338       Florida to Ontario
                                   27.8                14.6802-0.4539 29.5 28.0                                         (combined)
                                                                                                                        Florida to Ontario
                                   29                  16.4227-0.4842 31.5 29.5                                         (combined)
                                                                                                                        Florida to Ontario
                                   31                  28.3281-O-8239 33  32.5                                          (combined)
                                                                                                                        Florida to Ontario
                                   32.5        0.5     23.9586-0.6473 35  32.5                                          (combined)
                                                                                                                        Florida to Ontario
                                   33.8 4.0            22.4970-0.5732 37  34                                            (combined)
                                                                                                                        S. Michigan pond
                                   34.8        6.8     24.2203-0.5917 38.5 35.5                                         L. Opeongo
                                                                                                                        L. Opeongo
                                   34.8                19.3194-0.4500 37.5 36.0

                             SP 28
                             su 34.8
SPECIES: Ictalurus nebulosus (brown bullhead)                                                                                                                               Page 2 of 2

                                                                                                                        THERMAL TOLERANCES:  Reference
                                                                                                                                             Jinks et al 1981
             Accli-  Accli-        Upper       Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical                       Jinks et al 1981
             mation  mation        Incip.      Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal                        Jinks et al 1981
Size or Age  Temp.   Time    Sea-  Lethal      Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)                          Jinks et al 1981
(mm)                          son   Temp       Temp                                                   (Min)                                  Jinks et al 1981
                                                       a       b                                                        Location             Jinks et al 1981
larval                                                                                                                                       Jinks et al 1981
             25                    38.2                                     38.2                      IO                Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
early
juvenile                           36.4                                     36.4                      30                Lab

44; YOY                            36.4                                     36.4                      60                Lab
44; YOY
44; YOY      26                    37.6                                     37.6                      IO                Lab

                                   36.5                                     36.5                      30                Lab

             24                    35.9                                     35.9                      60                Lab

             24                    35.6                                     35.6                      1440              Lab

             24                    35.7                                     35.7                      5760              Lab

SPECIES: Ictalurus nebulosus (brown bullhead)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper               Final      Lower       Acclimation Acclimation                 PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                           Temperature Time                        Location
                                               Preferendum Avoidance                                                                         Reference

                             40                                                                               Delaware R., discharge         Brown 1974
                                                                                                              power plant
adult        w                                 11.9                                                           Lab                            Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                              Lab                            Coutant 1977a
adult        SP                                23.5                                                           Lab                            Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                              Lab                            Coutant 1977a
adult        su                                24.9                                                           Lab                            Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                              Lab                            Coutant 1977a
adult        F                                 23.6                                                           Lab                            Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                              Lab                            Reutter and Hendendorf 1976
adult                                          29-31                                                          Lab                            Reutter and Hendendorf 1976
                                                                                                                                             Jobling 1981
93-l 93                                        27.3                                                           Connecticut R., Conn.          Wyman 1981
                                                                                                              (field occurrence)             Marcy 1976a
                                               26
                                                                                                              Lab                            Brown 1974
             w                                 10.9                                                           Lab                            Brown 1974
             SP                                                                                               Lab                            Richards and Ibara 1978
                                               22.4                                                           Lab                            Richards and Ibara 1978
                                                                                                              Lab                            Richards and Ibara 1978
                                               29-31                                                          Connecticut Yankee GS,         Richards and Ibara 1978
                                                                                                              Connecticut R., Conn.          Richards and Ibara 1978
young                                          31                                                                                            Richards and Ibara 1978

                             40                19.6       5.1

young                                          31.1                   26.1
young
93-193                       36.1                                     25
93-193
93-193                       21                13         7           3.5
93-193
93-l 93                      26                15-16      7           11.0
93-193
                             24                17-18      9           15.5

                             26                25         21          21

                             28                27         22          28

                             30
SPECIES: Ictalurus nebulosus (brown bullhead)

                                                        (b)                                                            GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                                       Reference
Size or Age        Optimum          (a)                 ST    No Growth Limits
(mm)               "C
                              Range MWAT Max                  Upper  Lower      Location

                                                                     <18                                               Carlander 1969

                   32                                                                                                  Spotila et al 1979
                   28.2/29.9
                                                                                                                       Jobling 1981

                                                                     4-10       Connecticut Yankee GS, Connecticut R.  Richards and Ibara 1978

                                                                                Conn. (winter migration)

                                    32                  37                                                             This study

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) 9 optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Ictalurus nebulosus (brown bullhead)

                                                                                                                       SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

w                  Season     O p t i m u m T e m p (a)       (b)       Accli-  (4        (cl      Median  (d)
w                  and/or                                     ST Max    mation  Lethal    Lethal   Lethal  Median
c\3                Accli-     Temp  Range MWAT                for       Time    Limit     Limit   AT       Lethal      Location                  Reference
                   mation                                     Embryo                      Lower            Final
            Event  Temp                                       Survival          Upper

spawning                      21.1                                                                                                               Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching                                       20.6-25                                                                                           Brown 1974
(6-9d)
spawning                      >4                                                                                       Connecticut Yankee GS,    Richards and Ibara 1978
migration                                                                                                              Connecticut River, Conn.
                                                                                                                                                 This study
                                                        21.1  25

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival iincubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Ictalurus punctatus (channel cat)

                                                                                                                     THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                             Upper          Lower                                                  Resis-
                                            Incip.                                                 tance
             Accli-  Accli-  Incip.         Lethal  log time =                              Expo-  Time    Critical
             mation                         Temp                  Data Limits sure                 (Min)   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    mation Sea- Lethal             a f b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                         (Max)
(mm)
                     Time s o n T e m p             a  b                                                             Location                  Reference

             15              30.3           0                                                                                                  Carlander 1969
             20                                                                                                                                Carlander 1969
             25              32.8           2.5                                                                                                Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                                               Carlander 1969
                             33.5           6.0                                                                                                Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                                               Brown 1974
                             35
                                                                                                                                               Brown 1974
44-57d;      26              36.6                   34.7119-0.8816 39  36.6                                33.5
                                                                                                                           Hatchery, Ark.      Brown 1974

juvenile                                                                                                                                       Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                               Spotila et al 1979
44-57d;      30              37.8                   32.1736-0.7811 40.6 37.4                                                                   Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                               Spotila et al 1979
juvenile                                                                                                                                       Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                               Spotila et al 1979
44-57d;      34              38.0                   26.4204-0.6149 42 38                                                                       Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                               Jobling 1981
juvenile                                                                                                                                       Jobling 1981
                                                                                                                                               Brown 1974
             12                                                                                            34.5
                                                                                                           34.2                                Brown 1974
             16                                                                                            35.5
                                                                                                           37.7                                Brown 1974
             20                                                                                            39.2
                                                                                                           41.0                                Brown 1974
             24                                                                                            38.0                                Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                               Brown 1974
             28                                                                                                                                Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                               Brown 1974
             32

             22.7            su
                                     36.1
11.5 mo;     25                      36.4           34.5554-0.8854 37.5 35.5                                         Hatchery, Ark.
                                     35.5
                                                                                                                     Hatchery, Ark.
juvenile
                                                                                                                     Hatchery, Ark.
11.5 mo;     30              37                     17.7125-0.4058 40  37.5
                                                                                                                     Put-in-Bay, Ohio + Fla
juvenile                                                                                                             Put-in-Bay, Ohio -I- Fla
                                                                                                                     Put-in-Bay, Ohio + Fla
11.5 mo;     35              38                     28.3031-0.6554 41  38

juvenile

adult        15              30.4           0       34.7829-1.0637 31.5 30.5

adult        20              32.8           0       39.4967-1.1234 34  33

             25              33.5           0       46.2155-1.2899 35  44

             7.2             32.8                                                                  32.8    60

             11.             35                                                                    35      60
SPECIES: Ictalurus punctatus (channel cat)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final    Lower         Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time         Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                          Reference

large                    32                           26                                     Wabash R., Ind.                Coutant 1977a
                                                                                             White R., Ind.                 Coutant 1977a
large                    34                                                                  Lab                            Coutant 1977a
                                                                                             Lab                            Coutant 1977a
adult        SU                              25.2                                            Lab                            Coutant 1977a
                                                                                             in field                       Spotila et al 1979
adult        F                               25.3                                                                           Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                             Connecticut R., Conn.          Spotila et al 1979
                         35                  30.5     23                                     (field occurrence)             Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                             J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R., Ohio  Spotila et al 1979
                                             23-32.5                                         J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R., Ohio  Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                             J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R., Ohio  Spotila et al 1979
                                             >32                                                                            Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                            Spotila et al 1979
                                             18.9                   6                                                       Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                            Spotila et al 1979
                                             20.4                   9                                                       Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                            Spotila et al 1979
                                             19.9                   I2                                                      Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                            Spotila et al 1979
                                             21.7                   15                                                      Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                            Spotila et al 1979
                                             22.9                   I8                                                      Marcy 1976a

                                             26.1                   21                                                      Brown 1974
                                                                                                                            Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                             29.4                   24                                                      Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                                                            Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                             29.5                   27

                                             30.5                   30

                                             17                     I2

                                             21                     16

                                             22                     20

                                             28                     24

                                             26                     28

                                             30                     32

                         28.5                15.2                   5.1

fry                                          28-29
                  su                         32-36
                                             30-32
                      F                      s-14
                      w
SPECIES: Ictalurus punctatus (channel cat)

                                            (b)                                                             GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                                  Reference
Size or Age  Optimum           (a)          ST      No Growth Limits
(mm)         "C
                      Range    MWAT Max             Upper   Lower         Location

             29                                                                                             Jobling 1981
                                                                                                            Jobling 1981
             30                                                                                             Jobling 1981
                                                                                                            Brown 1974
             28-30                                                                                          Brown 1974
                                                                                                            EPA 1974
larvae       29/31    21-34                         36                                                      Leidy and Jenkins 1977
                                                                                                            Cravens 1981
juvenile     28/32    18.3-34                       >34     15.6

                               32           36

             30

             30                                             10

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth),
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Ictalurus punctatus (channel cat)

                                                                                                            SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season   Optimum Temp (al                  (b)       Accli-  (c)       (4      Median  (d)
             and/or                                     ST Max    mation  Lethal    Lethal  Lethal  Median
Event        Accli-   Temp     Range M W A T            for       Time    Limit     Limit   ilT     Lethal  Location                      Reference
             mation                                     Embryo                      Lower           Final
             Temp                                       Survival          Upper

spawning              26.7     23.9-29.5                                                                                                  Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching                                                                                                                                  Scott and Crossman 1973
(5-10d)                            15.6-27.8
spawning                                                                                                                                  Carlander 1969
hatching              23.9                                                                                                                Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                          EPA 1974
spawning              22       23.9-22.8                                  >28.4                                                           EPA 1974
hatch                                                                                                                                     EPA 1974
wintering                                       27      29                                                                                Yoder and Gammon 1976
cold shock                                                                                                                                Coutant et al 1976
heat shock            27       21-29                                                                                                      Cada et al 1981

(16-26 mm)                          18-29                                                                                                 Coutant 1977b
cold shock 34
                                   5-15

                                                                                            -6/-10          Lab
                                                                                            +I5             Lab; simulated
                                                                                                            entrainment
                                                                                            -14
                                                                                                            Sandusky R. to L. Erie

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Noturus flavus (stone cat)

                                                                                                            THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-          Upper   Lower   log time =                   Expo-  Resis-   Critical
             mation                  Incip.  Incip.                               sure   tance    Thermal
             Temp.                           Lethal                              Temp    Time     (Max)
Size or Age          mation Sea- Lethal      Temp    a + b (temp)  Data Limits           (Min)
(mm)                                                               &p&r-%%%&
                     Time son Temp                   a       b                                              Location             Reference

             I.6             W                                                                    29.0                           Spotila et al 1979

SPECIES: Noturus flavus (stone cat)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final        Lower          Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                              Temperature Time         Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                               Reference

adult        W                               5.5                                                  Lab                            Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                                 Coutant 1977a
adult        F                               25.1                                                 Lab

SPECIES: Noturus flavus (stone cat)

                                                                                                            SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                  (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                  ST Max              (c)     (c)              (4
             mation                                                      Lethal  Lethal           Median
             Temp                                    for         Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median   Lethal
                                                                                 Lower   Lethal   Final
                     Optimum Temp (a)                Embryo mation       Upper           AT

Event                Temp            Range M W A T   Survival Time                                          Location             Reference

spawning             27.8                                                                                                        Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                 This study
                                             27.8

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Noturus gyrinus (tadpole madtom)

                                                                                                                                 THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                   Accli-  Accli-  Upper       Lower            log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                   mation          Incip.      Incip.                         Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
                   Temp                        Lethal                         Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
Size or Age                mation Sea- Lethal  Temp             a + b (temp)                                   (Min)
(mm)
                           Time s o n T e m p                   a       b                                                        Location             Reference

                                                                                                                       38        Shallow Michigan     Beltz et al 1974

                                                                                                                                 pond.

SPECIES: Noturus miurus (brindled madtom)

                                                                                                                                 SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                   Season                                       (b)
                   and/or
                   Accli-                                       ST Max              (c)     (Cl                        (d)
                   mation                                                           Lethal  Lethal                     Median
r                  Temp                                         for         Accli-  Limit   Limit              Median  Lethal
2                                                                                           Lower              Lethal  Final
                           O p t i m u m T e m p (a)            Embryo mation       Upper                      AT
            Event
                           Temp    Range MWAT                   Survival Time                                                    Location             Reference

spawning                   25.6                                                                                                  Michigan             Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning                                                  25.6                                                                   Ohio                 This study
                                                                                                                                                      McAllister et al 1985
                                             25-27

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Anguilla rostrata (american eel)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                      Final         Lower         Acclimation Acclimation       PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                       Temperature Time              Location
                                                      Preferendum Avoidance                                                                  Reference

                            33-35                                                                                                            Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                                             Cravens 1961
adult                                                 16.7                        6-30                          Maryland                     M a r c y 1976a
                                                                                                                Connecticut Yankee GS
                            33                        20.5          11.9                                        discharge, Conn. Ft., Conn.

SPECIES: Anguilla rostrata (american eel)

                                             (b)                                                                   GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                                   Reference
Size or Age  Optimum            (a)               ST         No Growth Limits                                      Talmage and Coutant 1978
(mm)         "C
                      Range MWAT Max                         Upper   Lower        Location

             25                                                      10           Lab

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Anguilla rostrata (american eel)

                                                                                                                   SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                          (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                          ST Max               (4        (4             (d)
             mation                                                               Lethal    Lethal
             Temp                                            for          Accli-  Limit     Limit   Median Median
                                                                                  UPPer     Lower
                      Optimum Temp (a)                       Embryo mation                          Lethal Lethal

Event                 Temp      Range M W A T                Survival Time                          AT     Final   Location                  Reference

spawning                                                                                                           Ocean                     Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                             This study
                                                  17         35

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures,
SPECIES: Fundulus diaphanus (banded killifish)

                                                                                                                             THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-       Upper         Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation               Incip.        Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
             Tamp                               Lethal                Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
Size or Age          mation Sea- Lethal         Temp    a f b (temp)                                   (Min)
(mm)
                     Time s o n T e m p                 a         b                                                          Location                   Reference

adult        15                   27.5                                                                                       Lab                          Brown 1974
                                  a38.3                                                                                      Field                         Leidy and Jenkins 1977
                                                                                                                                                           Houston 1982
adult        25                   34.5                                                                                                                    Beltz et al 1974
                                  26.5
                                                                                                                                                        Reference
SPECIES: Fundulus diaphanus (banded killifish)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                Final        Lower           Acclimation Acclimation           PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                  Temperature Time                  Location
                                                Preferendum Avoidance

adult                                           19.3                         6-33                              SW Penn.                                 Cravens 1982
                                                                                                                                                        Talmage and Coutant 1978
                             >15                             0.5

SPECIES: Fundulus diaphanus (banded killifish)

                                                                                                                             SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                     (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                     ST Max               (c)     (c)                              (4
             mation                                                          Lethal  Lethal            Median Median
             Temp                                       for          Accli-  Limit   Limit             Lethal Lethal

                     O p t i m u m T a m p (a)          Embryo mation        Upper                                    Final

Event                Temp         Range M W A T         Survival Time                                                        Location                   Reference

spawning             23           21-23                                                                                       Lab                       Scott and Crossman 1973
hatching                                                                                                                     -Hatchery pond, Mich.      Scott and Crossman 1973
(11-12d)                          22-26.7
spawning                                                                                                                      L. St. Louis, L. Renaud,  Carlander 1969
spawning                          21                                                                                          Quebec                    Talmage 1978
                                  21-23
                                                                                                                                                        This study
                                                23      26

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Lota lota (burbot)

             Accli-     Accli-           Upper       Lower   log time -                                  Expo-  Resis-  -Critical  THERMAL TOLERANCES:
             mation     mation           Incip.      Incip.                    Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal    Location
Size or Age  Temp       Time    Sea-                 Lethal  a + b (temp)      Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                             son    Lethal       Temp                                                       (Min)
                                        Temp                 a      b                                                                                       Reference

                                         23.3                                                                                                               Scott and Crossman 1973

SPECIES: Lota lota (burbot)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                     Final          Lower      Acclimation Acclimation                  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                    Temperature Time                         Location
                                                     Preferendum Avoidance                                                                              Reference

SPECIES: Lota lota (burbot)

                                                 bl                                                                                GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                                                   Reference
Size or Age  Optimum                (a)          ST          No Growth Limits
(mm)         "C                                                                                                                    Scott and Crossman 1973
                             Range  MWAT Max                 Upper  Lower      Location                                            This study

             15.6-18.3

                                    20           24

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum -f- 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature- optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.
SPECIES: Lota lota (burbot)

                                                                                                           SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                       (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                       ST Max          (c)     (c)              kJt
             mation                                                       Lethal  Lethal           Median
             Temp                                         for     Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median   Lethal
                                                                                  Lower   Lethal   Final
                     Optimum T e m p ( a )                Embryo mation   Upper           AT

Event                Temp     R a n g e MWAT              Survival Time                                    Location             Reference

spawning             0.6-1.7                                                                               Surface water temp.  Scott and Crossman 1973
incubation           o-1.5                                                                                                      Mansfield et al 1983
(70d)
hatching             <8-10                                                                                                      Mansfield et al 1983
                                                                                                                                This study
                                             1.2          1.7

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

SPECIES: Labiddesthes sicculus (brook silverside)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                   Final       Lower      Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                               Temperature Time         Location
                                                   Preferendum Avoidance                                                        Reference
                                                                                                                                Holland and Sylvester 1983
larval       SU                                    22-27                                           Mississippi R.
SPECIES: Culaea inconstans [brook stickleback)

                  Accli-   Accli-         Upper   Lower   log time =                                Expo-  Resis-            THERMAL TOLERANCES:
                  mation  mation          Incip.  Incip.                  Data Limits sure                 tance . Critical  Location
Size or Age       Temp     Time    Sea-           Lethal  a -f- b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time Thermal
(mm)                                son  Lethal   Temp                                                     (Min) (Max)
                                         Temp             a       b                                                                               Reference
                                                                                                                                                  Carlander 1969
                  25-26                  30.6

SPECIES: Culaea inconstans (brook stickleback)

                                                                                                                             SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                  Season                                  (b)
                  and/or
                  Accli-                                  ST Max              (c)     (4                           (d)
                  mation                                                      Lethal  Lethal                       Median
                  Temp                                    for         Accli-  Limit   Limit                Median  Lethal
                                                                                      Lower                Lethal  Final
                          Optimum Temp (a)                Embryo mation       Upper                        AT

         Event            Temp           Range M W A T    Survival Time                                                      Location             Reference

z                                          8-19                                                                                                   Scott and Crossman 1973
Lo                        18.3                                                                                                                    Scott and Crossman 1973

        spawning                         4.5-21                                                                                                   Carlander 1969
        hatching                                                                                                                                  Carlander 1969
        (8-9d)                           15-18                                                                                                    This study
        spawning
        hatching

                                                  18.3    21

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperaturesas defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Gasterosteus aculeatus (three spine stickleback)

                                                                                                                            THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-         Upper    Lower         log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation         Incip.   Incip.                      Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-  Lethal    Lethal        a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                          son  Temp      Temp                                                         (Min)
                                                           a       b                                                        Location             Reference

             19                    28.5                                                                                                          Jobling 1981
                                   25.8                                                                                                          Houston 1982
37 mm        19                    25.8                    19.3491-9.5940 32 26                                             Columbia R., Oregon  Brown 1974
                                   26                                                                                                            Talmage 1978
                                                                                                                                                 Carlander 1969(a)
                                             -0.7

(a) fatal body temperature

SPECIES: Gasterosteus aculeatus (three spine stickleback)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final            Lower      Acclimation Acclimation                  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                              Temperature Time                         Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                                               Reference

                                             7.5-10                                                                                              Jobling 1981
                                                                                                                                                 Jobling 1981
                                             16-18                                                                                               Wyman 1981
                                                                                                                                                 Cravens 1981
                                             12-16                                                                                               Talmage and Coutant 1980
                                                                                                                                                 Talmage 1978
adult                                        4-8                         11                                                                      Talmage and Coutant 1978

                                             10                          20

                                                              4.0

                                             16
SPECIES: Gasterosteus aculeatus (three spine stickleback)

                                                   bl                                                       GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age        Optimum             (a)         ST    No Growth Limits                                   Reference
(mm)               %
                            Range      MWAT Max          Upper     Lower   Location                         Jobling 1981
                                                                                                            Jobling 1981
                            12.8-19.3                                                                       Cravens et al 1983
                                                                                                            This study
                   >19

                            3-19

                                       22.4        28.5

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Gasterosteus aculeatus (three spine stickleback)

;:                                                                                                          SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:
rp
                   Season                                  (b)
            Event  and/or
                   Accli-                                  ST Max          (c)       (c)            (4
                   mation                                                  Lethal    Lethal Median  Median
                   Temp                                    for     Accli-  Limit     Limit Lethal   Lethal
                                                                                     L o w e r iZT  Final
                            Optimum Temp           (a)     Embryo mation   Upper
                                                   MWAT
                            Temp       Range               Survival Time                                    Location                      Reference

hatching (7d)               19                                                                                                            Scott and Grossman 1973
spawning                                     5-20                                                                                         Carlander 1969

                                                   19      20                                                                             This study

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Pungitius pungitius (nine spine stickleback)

Size or Age     Season Day or Upper             Final       Lower      Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                           Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time         Location
                                                Preferendum Avoidance                                                    Reference

                SU                              17-24                                           Atikokan GS, Ontario     Haymes 1974
                                                5-6                                             L. Michigan              Brandt et al 1980
                F       N                                                                       (bottom trawl)           Brandt et al 1980
                                                13-14                                           L. Michigan
                F       D                                                                       (bottom trawl)

SPECIES: Pungitius pungitius (nine spine stickleback)

                                                                                                        SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                Season                                 (b)
                and/or
                Accli-                                 ST Max          (c)     (c)              (d)
                mation                                                 Lethal  Lethal Median    Median
                Temp                                   for     Accli-  Limit   Limit Lethal     Lethal
                                                                               Lower AT         Final
                           O p t i m u m T e m p (a)   Embryo mation   Upper

         Event             Temp   Range MWAT           Survival Time                                    Location         Reference
x
Ln                         19-24  16-26                                                                                  Carlander 1969
                                                                                                                         This study
         eggs

                                                21     26

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24111 maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
     SPECIES: Percopsis omiscomaycus (trout perch)

                                                                                                                                             THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                  Accli-   Accli-         Upper         Lower   log time =                                          Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                  mation  mation          Incip.        Incip.                            Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
     Size or Age  Temp.   Time     Sea-  Lethal         Lethal  a + b (temp)              Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
     (mm)                           son  Temp           Temp                                                               (Min)
                                                                a                  b                                                         Location              Reference
                                                                                                                                                                   Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
     adult        1.7              W                                                                                               22.9      Lab

     SPECIES: Percopsis omiscomaycus (trout perch)

     Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                   Final          Lower              Acclimation Acclimation                  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
     (mm)                      N i g h t Avoidance                                        Temperature Time                         Location
                                                        Preferendum Avoidance                                                                                     Reference

     adult                         16                                          10                                                  L. Michigan                    Coutant 1977a
                                                        16-18                                                                      L. Michigan                    Brandt et al 1980
     adult                                              15-16                                                                      L. Michigan                    Brandt et al 1980
                                                        7-16                                                                       L. Michigan                    Brandt et al 1980
w    adult                 D                            15-16                                                                      L. Michigan                    Crowder et al 1981
                                                        7-8                                                                        L. Michigan                    Crowder et al 1981
be.
0-J adult                  N

     adult        F        D

                  F        N

     SPECIES: Percopsis omiscomaycus (trout perch)

                                                    bl                                                                                       GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                                                             Reference
     Size or Age  Optimum              (a)          ST          No Growth Limits                                                             Carlander 1969
     (mm)         "C
                              Range MWAT Max                    Upper              Lower  Location

                                                                                   15.5   L. Erie

     (a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
     (b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.
SPECIES: Percopsis omiscomaycus (trout perch)

                                                                                                            SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

          Season                                        (b)
          and/or
          Accli-                                        ST Max              (c)     (Cl             M
          mation                                                            Lethal  Lethal          Median
          Temp                                          for     Accli-      Limit   Limit   Median  Lethal
                                                                                    Lower   Lethal  Final
                  Optimum  Temp                    (a)  Embryo m a t i o n  Upper           AT
                  Temp
Event                      Range MWAT                   Survival Time                                       Location                Reference

spawning          15                                                                                        Twelvepole Ck., W. Va.  Talmage 1978
spawning                                                                                                    L. Winnebago, Wis.      Carlander 1969
spawning                   16-20                                                                            Heming L., Man.         Carlander 1969
spawning                                                                                                    L. Erie                 Carlander 1969
                           6-11                                                                                                     This study

                  20       19-21.4

                                               20       21.4

        (a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
        (b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.

        (c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946)
        (d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
x
-4
    SPECIES: Morone americana (white perch)

                                                                                                                               THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                  Accli-  Accli-          Upper   Lower      log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                  mation  mation          Incip.  Incip.                   Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
    Size or Age   Temp    Time    Sea-   Lethal   Lethal     a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
    (mm)                           son   Temp     Temp                                                      (Min)
                                                             a  b                                                              Location             Reference

                                         32.4-34                                                            24-336h 35.6-36.4                       Ellis 1964
                                                                                                            10                                      Talmage and Coutant 1979
    larvae                               33-36                                                                                                      Talmage 1978
    larvae                                                                                                                                          Talmage 1978
                  8                      27       8                                                                                                 Jinks et al 1981
                  26                                                                                                                                Jinks et al 1981
                  15                     35                                                                                                         Jinks et al 1981
                                                                                                                                                    Jinks et al 1981
                  21-22                  35.6                                                               10                 Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
                                                                                                                                                    Jinks et al 1981
                                         31.4                                                               30                 Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
                                                                                                                                                    Jinks et al 1981
                                         30.3                                                               1440               Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
                                                                                                                                                    Jinks et al 1981
                                         38.4                                                               10                 Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
                                                                                                                                                    Jinks et al 1981
                                         35.2                                                               30                 Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
                                                                                                                                                    Jinks et al 1981
                                         34.8                                                               60                 Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
                                                                                                                                                    Jinks et al 1981
                                         31.0                                                               1440               Lab                  Jinks et al 1981
                                                                                                                                                    Jinks et al 1981
                  24                     38                                                                 10                 Lab                  Kellogg and Gift 1983

                                         36.1                                                               30                 Lab

                                         35.4                                                               60                 Lab

    34-41         26-27                  36.8                                                               5                  Lab

                                         36.8                                                               10                 Lab

                                         37.2                                                               30                 Lab

    31-35         25-26                  35.4                                                               60                 Lab

                                         34.6                                                               1440               Lab

z                                        34.5                                                               5760               Lab

00  larvae        18-24                  38.5                                                                                  Lab

    juvenile      27                     36                                                                                    Lab

    larvae                               34.8                                                                                  Lab

    SPECIES: Morone americana (white perch)

    Size or Age   Season Day or Upper             Final         Lower      Acclimation Acclimation                  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
    (mm)                         Night Avoidance                           Temperature Time                         Location
                                                  Preferendum Avoidance                                                                             Reference

    Small                         35              32                                                                Lab                             Coutant 1977a
                                                  27.5                                                              Connecticut Yankee plant        Marcy 1976a
                                  40              >24           5.7                                                                                 Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                  28.9-30.6     9-10                                                Lab                             Talmage and Coutant 1980
    51-65                                         31.6-32.5                6-33                                     Lab N.C.                        Talmage and Coutant 1979
                                                  29.3-30.6                6-33                                     Lab Maryland                    Talmage and Coutant 1979
    larvae        su              32              29.2-29.6                6-33                                     Lab N.J.                        Talmage and Coutant 1979
                  W               31-34                                    6-33                                                                     Talmage and Coutant 1979
    32-39 TL                      24-25           29-32                                                             Lab
    35.1 TL       sp/su                           13-19                    26                                       Lab                             Talmage 1978
    29.5 TL                                       30                       3-4                                      Lab                             Kellogg and Gift 1983
    3.88; larvae                                  30.6                                                              Lab                             Kellogg and Gift 1983
                                                  29.3                     26                                       Connecticut R.                  Kellogg and Gift 1983
                                                  21-27                    26                                                                       Marcy 1976b
SPECIES: Morone americana (white perch)

I                                                                                                                                                    GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                                                                     Reference
                                                                                 (b)
                                                                                                                                                     Kellogg and Gift 1983
Size or Age         Optimum             (a)     ST                                    No Growth Limits                                               This study
(mm)                "C
                             Range      MWAT Max                                      Upper       Lower   Location

27.5                28.5     26.3-31.7                                                34                  Lab, Hudson R. N.Y.

                                        30.6 33

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum -t- 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature -optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Morone americana (white perch)

                                                                                                                                                     SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                    Season                                                                (b)
                    and/or
z                   Accli-                                                                ST Max          (c)       (4                       (d)
CD                  mation                                                                                Lethal    Lethal Median            Median
                    Temp                                                                  for     Accli-  Limit     Limit Lethal             Lethal
             Event                                                                                                  L o w e r rlT            Final
                             Optimum    Temp (a)                                          Embryo mation   Upper
                             Temp       Range M W A T
                                                                                          Survival Time                                              Location               Reference

spawning                                11-15                                                                                                        Bay of Quinte, L. Ont  Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                                                            Scott and Crossman 1973
hatch                                   15-20                                                                                                        Lab                    Cravens et al 1983
                                                                                                                                                     Lab                    Wyman 1981
hatch               8-26     14.1/17.6                                                                                                               Lab                    Talmage 1978
                                                                                                                                                     Connecticut R.         Morgan II and Rasin, Jr. 1982
eggs                18                                                                    18              24                   6                     Connecticut R.         Morgan II and Rasin. Jr. 1982
                                                                                                                       2       -18                   Lab                    Morgan II and Rasin, Jr. 1982
cold shock 20                                                                                                                                                               Marcy 1976b
                                                                                                                                                                            Marcy 1976b
spawning                     15.6-19.4 12-22.2 17                                         25                                                                                Marcy 1976b
                                                                                                                                                                            Beltz et al 1974
hatch                        14.1       1O-24

embryo                       17.6       1O-24

spawning                                8.9-27

eggs                         19.0-20.9
heat shock
                                                                                                          28
heat shock 27                                                                                                                         t 8.5

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Morone chrysops (white bass)

                                                                                                                               THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                                       Upper       Lower                                                     Resis-
                                                   Incip.                                                    tance
             Accli-  Accli-            Incip.      Lethal     log time =                              Expo-  Time    Critical
             mation                                Temp                     Data Limits sure                 (Min)   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    mation Sea- Lethal                       a 4 b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                         (Max)
(mm)
                     Time s o n T e m p                       a  b                                                             Location             Reference

larvae       14-26                     30-32                                                                 24h                                    Ellis 1984
YOY                                    33.5                                                                                                         Ellis 1984
larvae       21.7                                                                                            48h                                    Reutter & Herdendorf 1976
             14                                                                                                                                     McCormick 1978
YOY          18                                                                                                      35.3      Lab                  McCormick 1978
             20                                                                                                                                     McCormick 1978
             26                        31.7        12.8                                                                        Lab                  McCormick 1978
             14-26                                                                                                                                  McCormick 1978
                                       30.8                                                                                                         Talmage 1978
             30-35                                                                                                                                  Houston 1982
                                       32.0                                                                                                         Spotila et al 1979

                                       30.6

                                       31.3

                                       36.1                                                                                    Mississippi R.

                                       33.5

                             su 33.5

SPECIES: Morone chrysops (white bass)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                   Final         Lower      Acclimation Acclimation                  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                      Night Avoidance                                   Temperature Time
                                                   Preferendum Avoidance                                             Location                       Reference
large                                   29
YOY          W                                     1o-13                                                             Wabash R., Ind.                Coutant 1977a
YOY          SP                                    16-18                                                             Lab                            Coutant 1977a
YOY          su                                    31.0                                                              Lab                            Coutant 1977a
YOY          F                                     28.0                                                              Lab                            Coutant 1977a
YOY          su                                    27.8                                                              Lab                            Coutant 1977a
adult        W                                     12-17                                                             Lab                            Coutant 1977a
adult        SP                                    12-17                                                             Lab                            Coutant 1977a
adult        su                                    28-30                                                             Lab                            Coutant 1977a
adult        F                                     16-17                                                             Lab                            Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                     Lab                            Coutant 1977a
                                            >29.8                                                                    Pickering GS L. Ont            Ellis 1984
                                        >34                                                                          Colbert plant, Alabama         Ellis 1984
                                                                                                                     J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R.        Brown 1974
adult        SU                                    29                                                                Power plant discharge,         Brown 1974
                                                   33.9-34.4
             su              35                                                                                       Tennessee R.                  Brown 1984
                             29-34.4               30-34                                                             L. Erie                        Ellis 1984
young        su                                                                                                                                     Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                                   27.8                                                              Lab                            Wyman 1981
             SU                                    30-32                                                                                            Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                   26-29                                                             Power plant, Ohio R., Ohio     Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                   16-28                                                                                            Yoder and Gammon 1976
             F                                     12-16                                                                                            Spotila et al 1979

             Wi

                                                                                                                     Ohio R., Ind.
SPECIES: Morone chrysops (white bass)

                                           (b)                                                                           GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age  Optimum             (a)       ST   No Growth Limits                                                         Reference
(mm)         "C
                      Range      MWAT Max       Upper                   Lower   Location                                 EPA 1974
                                                                                                                         Brown 1974
Juvenile     23-24                                          19                          Reservoir, S.D.                  Brown 1974
larvae       16                  26.7 34                                15.6                                             This study
juvenile

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 113 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Morone chrysops (white bass)

                                                                                                                         SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                             (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                             ST Max          (4        (4                     (d)
             mation                                                             Lethal    Lethal                 Median
             Temp                                               for     Accli-  Limit     Limit          Median  Lethal
                                                                                          Lower          Lethal  Final
                      Optimum Temp (a)                          Embryo mation   Upper                    AT

Event                 Temp       Range M W A T                  Survival Time                                            Location                 Reference

Spawning                         12-24 19                       24                                                                                EPA 1974

incubation/                                                                                                                                       EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                                  Brown 1974
hatch                 16-17                                                                                                                       Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                                  Coutant 1977b
hatch                 23.9                                                                                               L. Erie
                                                                                                                         L. Erie                  McCormick 1978
spawning                         14.4-21.1                                                                               Little-Three Mile Ck.    McCormick 1978
                                                                                                                                                  Talmage & Coutant 1978
cold shock w 27                                                                           9              -18                 Ohio A.              Horrall 1981
                                                                                                                         Lab
eggs         19                  18-26                          26              30.2 10
                                                                                                                         Lewis & Clark L. (S.D.)
                                 1 l-23.9                                                                                L. Mendota. Wis.

spawning              14.7-16.3

spawning                         13-26

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Ambloplites rupestris (rock bass)

                                                                                                                          THERMAL TOLERANCES:

Size or Age  Accli-  Accli-  Sea-   Upper      Lower      log time =                             Expo-  Resis-  Critical
(mm)         mation  mation   son   Incip.     Incip.     a + b (temp)  Data Limits sure                tance   Thermal
             Temp    Time          Lethal      Lethal                   Upper Lower Temp                Time    (Max)
                                   Temp                                                                 (Min)
                                                                                                                          Location             Reference

50-l 00      18-36           Su 36
<1 yr        23.9                    37.5
             23.5
adult        30              su
                                     35

SPECIES: Ambloplites rupestris (rock bass)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper               Final      Lower         Acclimation Acclimation                 PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                      N i g h t Avoidance                           Temperature Time                        Location
                                               Preferendum Avoidance                                                                           Reference

                                               21.3                                                             Wisconsin lakes                Coutant 1377a
                                                                                                                S. Ontario Streams             Coutant 1377a
                                               20.7                                                             L. Monona, Wisc.               Coutant 1377a
                                                                                                                L. Monona, Wisc.               Coutant 1377a
                     D                         27-27.8                                                          Lab                            Coutant 1377a
                                                                                                                Lab                            Coutant 1377a
                     N                         26.8-28.3                                                        Lab                            Coutant 1377a
                                                                                                                Lab                            Coutant 1377a
small                D       29.0              26.2       25.5                                                  Lab                            Coutant 1977a

small                N       29.5              28.8       26.0                                                  Lab                            Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                                Lab                            Cherry et al 1977
adult        w                                 21.6                                                             Lab                            Cherry et al 1377
                                                                                                                Lab                            Cherry et al 1377
adult        SP                                20.5                                                             Lab                            Cherry et al 1377
                                                                                                                Lab                            Cherry et al 1377
adult        F                                 22.8                                                             Lab                            Cherry et al 1377

50-100 FL                                                                                                       Lab                            Brown 1974

61 yr        su                                30.6                                                             L. Monona, Wisc.               Brown 1974
                                                                                                                Wabash R.                      Brown 1374
50-100 FL    su              27                           15            18                                                                     Talmage and Coutant 1373
                                                                                                                Lab                            Reutter & Herdendorf 1976
50-100 FL    su              30                           18            21                                                                     Reutter & Herdendorf 1376
                                                                                                                                               Carlander 1377
50-100 FL    su              33                           21            24                                                                     Spotila et al 1379

50-100 FL    SU              33                           24            27

50-100 FL    su              33                           24            33

50-100 FL    su              35                           27            33

48-59 TL

juvenile                                       27.3

98-182 TL

adult                                          27.5

                                               27.4

                                               30

adult        SP                                19.6

             SU                                20.2

                     N       30.5                         27

             su                                18.7
SPECIES: Ambloplites rupestris (rock bass)

                                            (b)                                                         GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age  Optimum             (a)        ST       No Growth Limits                                   Reference
(mm)         "C
                      Range      MWAT Max            Upper   Lower     Location                         Carlander 1977
                                                                                                        Jobling 1981
                                                             8.5       Ontario stream                   Jobling 1981
                                                                                                        This study
             27.7
             29

                                            31.8 35

(a) MWAT (maximumweekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth)
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Ambloplites rupestris (rock bass)

                                                                                                        SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                  (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                  ST Max            Id        id          (d)
             mation                                                    Lethal    Lethal
             Temp                                    for     Accli-    Limit     Limit   Median Median
                                                                                 Lower
                      Optimum    Temp (a)            Embryo mation     Upper             Lethal Lethal
                      Temp       Range MWAT
Event                                                Survival Time                       AT  Final      Location                        Reference

spawning              20.5-21                                                                           Lab                             Brown 1974
                                                                                                        Michigan pond                   Brown 1974
survival                                                               38                                                               Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                        Carlander 1977
spawning              15.6-21.1                                                                                                         This study

                                 20.5-26

                                            21       26

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawnmg, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures
(b) Short-term (24h) rnaximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Lepomis cyanellus (green sunfish)

                                                                                                                            THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                   Accli-  Accli-         Upper    Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                   mation  mation         Incip.   Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age        Temp    Time    Sea-  Lethal    Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                                son  Temp      Temp                                                   (Min)
                                                           a      b                                                         Location             Reference

                                                                                                                  >36       White R., Ind.       Brown 1974
                                                                                                                            Field study          Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                 Carlander 1977
                                                                                                                                                 Leidy and Jenkins 1977

SPECIES: Lepomis cyanellus (green sunfish)

Size or Age        Season Day or Upper             Final      Lower       Acclimation Acclimation                 PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                              Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time                        Location
                                                   Preferendum Avoidance                                                                         Reference

                                   >36.1                                                                                                         Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                 Carlander 1977
E                                                  15.9                   6                                                                      Carlander 1977
n                                                                                                                                                Carlander 1977
                                                   22.7                   15                                                                     Beltz et al 1974
            <74;                                                                                                                                 Coutant 1977a
            adult                                  30.6                   30                                                                     Coutant 1977a
            small                                                                                                                                Coutant 1977a
                                                   26.8

                                   30              27.3       24

                                   33              30.6       23

                                   30.3            28.2       26.5
SPECIES: Lepomis cyanellus (green sunfish)

                                            bl                                                                  GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                                Reference
Size or Age  Optimum           (a)          ST    No Growth Limits
(mm)         "C                                                                                                 Carlander 1977
                      Range    MWAT Max           Upper   Lower       Location                                  Beitinger and Magnuson 1979

             28       13.2-28

                                                  >34     20

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Lepomis cyanellus (green sunfish)

                                                                                                                SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                               (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                               ST Max              (c)       id                      (d)
             mation                                                   Lethal    Lethal                  Median
             Temp                                 for         Accli-  Limit     Limit   Median          Lethal
                                                                                Lower   Lethal          Final
                      Optimum T e m p ( a )       Embryo mation       Upper             AT

Event                 Temp     Range MWAT         Survival Time                                                 Location                  Reference

spawning                       15.6-28                                                                                                    Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                          Brown 1974
spawning 16.7                                                         21.1                                                                Brown 1974
                                                                                                 >11.1                                    Carlander 1977
heat shock F/W/SU                                                                                                                         Carlander 1977
spawning                       20-24                                                                                                      This study

hatching              29.1

                                            21.8  28

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larvalentrainment temperatures.
     SPECIES: Lepomis gibbosus (pumpkinseed)

                                                                                                                               THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                  Accli-  Accli-              Upper   Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                  mation  mation              Incip.  Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
     Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea- Lethal         Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
     (mm)                          son Temp           Temp                                                   (Min)
                                                              a  b                                                             Location             Reference

     17-18                        su <38                                                                                       Pond (Mich.)         Brown 1974
     adult                                28                                                                                                        Brown 1974
                  18                      30.2                                                                       37.5      Lab                  Brown 1974
                  24                      38.9                                                                                                      Brown 1974
                  21.1                                                                                               >35.6     Lab                  Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                  23.1            su                                                                                                                Carlander 1977
                                                                                                                               Lab                  Carlander 1977
                  25.26                   34.5                                                                                                      Leidy and Jenkins 1977
                  25                      24.5                                                                                                      Jobling 1981
                                          36.6                                                                                                      Jobling 1981
                  30                      34.8                                                                                                      Schneider and et al 1975
                  25                                                                                                                                Schneider and et al 1975
                  10                                    8.5                                                                                         Becker and Genoway 1979
                  20                                    5                                                                                           Becker and Genoway 1979
                  12                                                                                                                                Evans 1977
     90-140       20                                                                                                 30.1      Lab                  Evans 1977
                  28                                                                                                                                Evans 1977
                  34                                                                                                 35.1      Lab                  Evans 1977
                                                                                                                                                    Evans 1977
c.L  adult          5             su 27.7-28.3 3.6                                                                             Lab                  Evans 1977
                  10                                                                                                                                Evans 1977
CJI  adult        12              su 32.3-32.9 6.4                                                                             Lab                  Evans 1977
03                20                                                                                                                                Evans 1977
     adult        28              su 35.2-35.3 11.3                                                                            Lab                  Evans 1977
                  30                                                                                                                                Evans 1977
     adult        32              su                  16.1                                                                     Lab                  Evans 1977
                  20                                                                                                                                Evans 1977
     adult        34              Wi                  1.1                                                                      Lab                  Evans 1977
                  20                                                                                                                                Evans 1977
     adult        12              Wi                  1.2                                                                      Lab                  Evans 1977
                  20                                                                                                                                Evans 1977
     adult         8              W i 28.5                                                                                     Lab                  Evans 1977
                  16                                                                                                                                Evans 1977
     adult        24              W i 31.6            6.4                                                                      Lab

     adult                        W i 31.9                                                                                     Lab

     adult                        Wi                  13.4                                                                     Lab

     adult                        W i 33.5                                                                                     Lab

     adult                        F 31.7              5.9                                                                      Lab

     adult                        F 37.0                                                                                       Lab

     YOY                          su                  5.9                                                                      Lab

     YOY                          su                  2.1                                                                      Lab

     YOY                          F 31.7              6.0                                                                      Lab

     YOY                          Wi 26                                                                                        Lab

     YOY                          W i 30.5                                                                                     Lab

     YOY                          Wi 34.2                                                                                      Lab
SPECIES: Lepomis gibbosus (pumpkinseed)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final    Lower         Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time         Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                    Reference

large             D                          28.5-32                                         L. Monona, Wis.          Coutant 1977a
                                                                                             L. Monona, Wis.          Coutant 1977a
large             N                          27-29                                           Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                                                             Lab                      Coutant 1977a
small                                        31.5                                            Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                                                             Lab                      Coutant 1977a
adult        SP                              24.2                                                                     Evans 1977
                                                                                             L. Monona, Wis.          Brown 1974
adult        su                              27.7                                            L. Monona, Wis.          Brown 1974
                                                                                             Delaware ft.             Brown 1974
large                >31                     26       >22                                    Lab                      Talmage and Coutant 1979
                                                                                             Lab                      Talmage and Coutant 1979
YOY          F/W     31.4                             24.5          20                       Lab                      Talmage and Coutant 1979
                                                                                             Lab                      Carlander 1977
100-161TL         D                          28                                              Lab                      Beitinger and Magnuson 1979
                                                                                             Connecticut R., Conn.    Marcy 1976a
100-161TL         N                          30.5                                            (field occurrence)
                                                                                             Lab                      Evans 1977
                     32.2                                                                    Lab                      Evans 1977
                                                                                             Lab                      Evans 1977
adult        W                               28.5                                            Lab                      Evans 1977
                                                                                             Lab                      Evans 1977
             SP                              31.7                                            Lab                      Evans 1977
                                                                                             Lab                      Evans 1977
             su                              31.7                                            Lab                      Evans 1977
                                                                                             Lab                      Evans 1977
                     31.7                    31.5     31                                     Lab                      Evans 1977
                                                                                             Lab                      Evans 1977
                     34

                     40                      28.4     11.9

adult        W       26.1                    22.9     18.5          8

adult        W       29.2                    25.3     20.8          12

adult        W       30.3                    26.9     23            20

adult        W       31                      27       22.4          24

adult        SP      25                      23.2     21.4          8

adult        SP      28.8                    25.5     21.2          12

adult        SP      31.4                    28.8     25.9          20

adult        SP      32.3                    29.5     25.6          24

adult        su      29.3                    25.6     21.8          12

adult        su      31.3                    28.1     24.5          20

adult        su      32.7                    30.3     26.7          24
SPECIES: Lepomis gibbosus (pumpkinseed)

                                         W                                                                       GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age  Optimum            (a)      ST          No Growth Limits                                            Reference
(mm)         "C
                          Range MWAT Max             Upper  Lower       Location                                 Carlander 1977
                                                                                                                 Jobling 1981
                      25                                                                                         Griffiths 1978
underyearling 30                                                                                                 Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                 This study
                                                            13          Gt. lakes

                                                            5

                                29.3 36

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum -C 113 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Lepomis gibbosus (pumpkinseed)

                                                                                                            SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season       O p t i m u m T e m p (al  Ibl        Accli-  (c)        (c)      Median  (d)
             and/or                                  ST Max     mation  Lethal     Lethal   Lethal  Median
Event        Accli-       Temp  Range MWAT           for        Time    Limit      Limit   AT       Lethal  Location                       Reference
             mation                                  Embryo                        Lower            Final
             Temp                                    Survival           Upper

spawning                        20-29                                                                       Lake, N.Y.                     Brown 1974
                                                                                                            Lab                            Brown 1974
                          28                                                                                                               Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                           Brown 1974
                          24                                                                                                               Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                           Carlander 1977
hatching                  28                                                                                                               Scheider and Becker et al 1975
                                                                                                                                           Scheider and Becker et al 1975
spawning                        20-27.8                                                                     Georgian Bay, Ontario          Scheider and Becker et al 1975
                                                                                                                                           Scheider and Becker et at 1975
spawning                        13-18                                                                                                      Scheider and Becker et al 1975
                                                                                                                                           Scheider and Becker et al 1975
cold shock 15                                                                      0.5     - 10 1.8         Lab

cold shock 20                                                                      2       -1O 2.7          Lab

cold shock 25                                                                      5       - 1 8 8.5        Lab

cold shock 25                                                                              -1O 6.3          Lab

cold shock 30                                                                      8.5     - 1 8 12         Lab

cold shock 30                                                                              - 1 o 8-9        Lab

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Lepomis macrochirus (bluegill)

                                                                                                              THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-              Upper   Lower   log time =                  Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation                      Incip.  Incip.                                     tance   Thermal
             Temp                                Lethal                                     Time    (Max)
Size or Age          mation Sea- Lethal          Temp    a + b (temp)  Data Limits-  sure   (Min)
(mm)
                     Time s o n T e m p                  a  b          Upper Lower Temp                       Location             Reference

adult        15                          31      3                                                                                 EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                   EPA 1974
juvenile     12                          27      3                                                                                 EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                   EPA 1974
adult        20                          32      5                                                                                 EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                   EPA 1974
adult        25                          33      7                                                                                 EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                   Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
juvenile     26                          36      10                                                                                Carlander 1977
                                                                                                                                   Carlander 1977
adult        30                          34      11                                                                                Carlander 1977
                                                                                                                                   Carlander 1977
juvenile     33                          37      15                                                                                Murphy et al 1976
                                                                                                                                   Murphy et al 1976
adult        22.8            SU                                                                     38.3      Lab                  Murphy et al 1976
                                                                                                                                   Peterson and Schutsky 1976
                                         35.5                                                       41.5                           Peterson and Schutsky 1976
                                                                                                                                   Peterson and Schutsky 1976
juvenile     19                          33      6                                                                                 Beitinger and Magnuson 1979
                                                                                                                                   Spotila et al 1979
93s          26                          33.8    21.9                                                                              Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                   Spotila et al 1979
fry          26                          34      11
                                                                                                                                   Brown 1974
             16                                                                                     31.5                           Brown 1974
                                                                                                    35.6-37.5                      Cherry et al 1977
             24                                                                                     38.5-41.4                      Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                   Brown 1974
             32                                                                                                     Lab
                                                                                                                    Lab
90           27                          35.8                                                                       Lab
                                         29.3                                                       35.6-37.3
             13                          23.3                                                       37.8
                                                                                                    40
             1                                                                                      43.4

             25                                                                                     41.4
                                                                                                                    Lab
             30

             35

                             s u 28.5                                                38     48

50-l 00      25                       38.3               38.6247-1.0581 35.5 34
adult        12-36           Su 36
5%14.26      20-23                                       30.1609-0.7657 38  36       36.5   240
             30                       33.8
SPECIES: Lepomis macrochirus (bluegill1

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final      Lower       Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time         Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                    Reference

adult                                        31                     26                                                Cravens 1982
                                                                    25                                                Talmage and Coutant 1978
juvenile                                     31.2                   25                                                Talmage and Coutant 1978
                                                                                                                      Talmage and Coutant 1980
juvenile             33.1                               29.5        30-34                                             Talmage and Coutant 1980
                                                                    6                                                 Coutant 1977a
                                             31                     9                        Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                      Coutant 1977a
50-100; <1 yr Su                             31.4                                            L. Monona, Wis.          Coutant 1977a
                                                                                             L. Monona, Wis.          Coutant 1977a
                                             29.4-31.3                                       L. Monona, Wis.          Coutant 1977a
                                                                                             L. Monona, Wis.          Coutant 1977a
53-99             D                          28.8-31.2                                       L. Monona, Wis.          Coutant 1977a
                                                                                             Lab                      Coutant 1977a
53-99             N                          27-29                                           Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                                                             Lab                      Coutant 1977a
100-193           D                          29.6-32.6                                       Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                                                             Lab                      Coutant 1977a
100-193           N                          27.2-29                                         Lab                      Brown 1974
                                                                                             Lab
vow                                          32.3                                            Lab                      Brown 1974
vow                                                                                          Thermal discharge        Carlander 1977
vouw              D  32.1                    30.2       28.5                                 White R., Ind.           Carlander 1977
vow                                                                                          Penn.                    Yoder and Gammon 1976
adult             N  32.5                    31.5       28.5                                                          Yoder and Gammon 1976
adult                                                                                        Ohio R.                  Yoder and Gammon 1976
                     33.1                    31.2       29.3                                 Ohio R.                  Peterson and Schutsky 1976
                                                                                             Ohio R.                  Peterson and Schutsky 1976
             W                               27.4                                            Lab                      Peterson and Schutsky 1976
                                                                                             Lab                      Beitinger 1976
                     35                      32         26                                   Lab                      Beitinger and Magnuson 1979

45-110               33                      32.3       26

120-155                                      30.5

             W       33.6

                     35                      30

                                             18.7

                                             19.6

             su      34                                 22

             F       24                                 14

             W       a                                  5

                     33.5                    30.7       27

                     30.3                    24.6       13

                     27.6                               1

                     33.4                    31.8       30.2

                     34
SPECIES: Lepomis macrochirus (bluegill)

                                               (b)                                                                        GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                                          Reference
Size or Age  Optimum         (a)               ST   No Growth Limits
(mm)         "C
                      Range  MWAT Max               Upper         Lower   Location

                                                                  13      Gt. Lakes                                       Griffiths 1978
                                                                  16-20   Indiana Lakes                                   Evans 1984
                                                                                                                          Talmage and Coutant 1978
juvenile     30       20-36                    32.2                                                                       Cravens 1981
juvenile     30                                                                                                           Talmage and Coutant 1980
subadult     30-31    24-34                    32                                                                         McCauley and Casselman 1980
             30.1     16-30                                 26.7                                                          McCauley and Casselman 1980
adult        29-30                                                                                                        McCauley and Casselman 1980
             31                    29          31                                                                         Brown 1974
75-125                                                                                                                    Brown 1974
             24-27                                                1o-13   Ponds                                           EPA 1974
                                                                          Lab                                             Carlander 1977
             27                                                                                                           Carlander 1977
             31.2                                                                                                         Stuntz and Magnuson 1976

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Lepomis macrochirus (bluegill)

                                                                                                                     SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                 (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                 ST Max                  (c)     (c)                      (d)
             mation                                                         Lethal  Lethal                   Median
             Temp                                   for           Accli-  Limit     Limit   Median           Lethal
                                                                                    Lower   Lethal           Final
                      Optimum Temp (a)              Embryo mation           Upper           AT

Event                 Temp   Range M W A T          Survival Time                                                    Location             Reference

spawning                                17-26                                                                                             Carlander 1977
                      22.2-23.9                                                                                                           Spotila et al 1979
hatching     26                                                           33.8                                                            Brown 1974
                                                                                                     + 16.7                               Brown 1974
heat shock                                                                                           + 17.8                               Brown 1974
                                                                                                     +20                                  EPA 1974
heat shock                                                                                                                                EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                          EPA 1974
heat shock                                                                                                                                Wolters and Coutant 1976
                                                                                                                                          Wolters and Coutant 1976
                                               25   34                                                                                    Wolters and Coutant 1976
                                                                                                                                          Brown 1974
spawning              25
hatching                                                                                                                                  Brown 1974
cold shock 25         22-24  22-34
cold shock 30
cold shock 32                                                                               -1o                      Lab
heat shock
                                                                                            -14                      Lab

                                                                                            -16                      Lab

                                                                                            +16.7/+20

                                                                                            +20

heat shock Su                                                                               + 6.7

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Lepomis megalotis (longear sunfish)

                                                                                                                       THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-         Upper     Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation         Incip.    Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-  Lethal     Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                          son  Temp       Temp                                                   (Min)
                                                      a       b                                                        Location             Reference

>12; juvenile 25                    35.6              35.4953-0.9331 36.9 35.4                                          Middle Fork &       Brown 1974
                                                                                                                       White R., Ark.
>12; juvenile 30                    36.8              20.5981-0.4978 39   36.5                                                              Brown 1974
                                                                                                                        Middle Fork 81
>12; juvenile 35                    37.5              30.7245-9.7257 41.5 37.3                                          White R., Ark.      Brown 1974
                                                                                                                        Middle Fork &
young        25      14h            35.5                                          36.9               8                  White FL, Ark.      Brown 1974
                                                                                  39                 10                 Lab                 Brown 1974
young        30      14h            36.6                                          41.5               8                  Lab                 Brown 1974
                                                                                  35.6               160                Lab                 Brown 1974
young        35      14h            38.2                                          36.7               <250               Lab                 Brown 1974
                                                                                  37.3               9000               Lab                 Brown 1974
young        25                                                                                                         Lab                 Houston 1982
                                                                                                                                            Houston 1982
young        30                                                                                                         Field Study         Leidy and Jenkins 1977

vow3         35

             15.5                   31.1

             >30                    37.9

SPECIES: Lepomis megalotis (longear sunfish)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper              Final        Lower          Acclimation Acclimation            PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                               Temperature Time                   Location
                                              Preferendum Avoidance                                                                         Reference

                             >37.8                                                                                                          Carlander 1977

SPECIES: Lepomis megalotis (longear sunfish)

                                                                                                                       SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                   (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                   ST Max              (c)     (c)                        (d)
             mation                                                       Lethal  Lethal                     Median
             Temp                                     for         Accli-  Limit   Limit              Median  Lethal
                                                                                  Lower              Lethal  Final
                     O p t i m u m T e m p (a)        Embryo mation       Upper                      AT

Event                Temp          Range M W A T      Survival Time                                                    Location             Reference

spawning                           23.4-25                                                                                                  Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning                                                                                                                                    Carlander 1977
                                   24-30                                                                               Kansas               This study

                                              27      30

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for'spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Micropterus dolomieui (smallmouth bass)

                                                                                                             THERMAL TOLERANCES:

               Accli- Accli-  Upper              Lower    log time =                Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                              lncip.             Incip.                             sure   tance
                                                 Lethal                              Temp  Time
Size or Age    mation. mation Sea- Lethal        Temp     a f b (temp) Data Limits         (Min)   Thermal
(mm)
               Temp Time s o n T e m p                    a  - b i5f;pzG%                          (Max)     Location             Reference

larvae                        33                                                                                                  EPA 1974
                              35                                                                                                  EPA 1974
juvenile                                                                                                                          EPA 1974
                                           2                                                                                      EPA 1974
juvenile       15                          4                                                                                      EPA 1974
                                           4                                                                                      EPA 1974
larvae                                     7                                                                                      EPA 1974
                                            10                                                                                    Wrenn 1980
juvenile       18             37
                                                                                                                                  Ellis 1984
juvenile       22                                                                                                                 Wrenn 1980
                                                                                                                                  Shuter et al 1980
juvenile       26                                                                                                                 EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                  EPA 1974
YOY            35                                                                                            Outdoor expt.        EPA 1974
                                                                                                             channels, Alabama    EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                  Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
adult          35             37                                                                                                  Brown 1974
fry                                                                                                                               Wrenn 1980
larvae         15             38                                                                             field and lab
juvenile       18                                                                                            Lab                  Cherry et al 1977
juvenile       22             30                 10                                                          Lab                  Fahmy and Crippen 1981
juvenile       26                                                                                            Lab                  Leidy and Jenkins 1977
juvenile       23.3                              2                                                           Lab                  Leidy and Jenkins 1977
               12.8                                                                                          Lab
adult/                                           4
juvenile       18-33
50-l 00; slyr                                    7
larvae         26
juvenile       35                                10

                              SU                                                                   36.3      Lab
                                      29.4-32.2
                                      35

                              su 35                                                                          Lab
                                      35.8
                                                    10.1                                                     Lab
                                                    1.6                                                      Lab
     SPECIES: Micropterus dolomieui (smallmouth bass)

     Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final  Lower           Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
     (mm)                        Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time         Location
                                                  Preferendum Avoidance                                                      Reference

     small                                        28                                              Lab                        Coutant 1977a
     YOY                                                                                          Lab                        Coutant 1977a
     YOY          W                               18                                              Lab                        Coutant 1977a
                  SP                                                                              Nebish L., Wis.            Coutant 1977a
     YOY                                          19-24                                           S. Ont. streams            Coutant 1977a
     YOY                                                                                          Lab                        Coutant 1977a
     YOY                                          21.3                                            Lab                        Coutant 1977a
     YOY                                                                                          Lab                        Coutant 1977a
     adult                                        21.4                                            Lab                        Coutant 1977a
     adult                                                                                        Lab                        Coutant 1977a
     adult        su                              31                                              Lab                        Coutant 1977a
     adult        F                                                                               Lab                        Coutant 1977a
                                                  24-27                                           Lab                        Coutant 1977a
     adult                                                                                        Lab                        Coutant 1977a
                  F                               26.6                                            Tennessee R., Alab.        Wrenn 1980
                                                                                                  (outdoor exptal channels)
                      D  35                       31.1                                            Lab                        Shuter et al 1980
                                                                                                  Lab                        Talmage and Coutant 1979
                  W                               12-13                                           Lab                        Talmage and Coutant 1979
                                                                                                  Lab                        Cherry et al 1977
                  SP                              15-16                                           Lab                        Cherry et al 1977
                  su                                                                              Lab                        Cherry et al 1977
                                                  30                                              Lab                        Cherry et al 1977
                  F                                                                               Lab                        Cherry et al 1977
                                                  21-23                                           Lab                        Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                  Lab                        Cherry et al 1977
                                            33    31.3   26                                       Lab                        Cherry et al 1977
                  su                                                                                                         Ellis 1984
                                                  30-31                                                                      Spotila et al 1979

s    juvenile                                     28-29
                                                  30.1
be.                   D

                      N                           26.6

     50-100;Qlyr                                  30.3

     50-l00;&lyr         27                              15              18

     50.100;Glyr         30                              18              21

     50-l00;*lyr         33                              21              24

     50.l00;*lyr         33                              24              27

     50-100;Slyr         33                              24              30

     50-100;slyr         35                              27              33

     adult        F                               26.6

                  W                               20                     1

                         136.7
SPECIES: Micropterus dolomieui (smallmouth bass)

                                             (b)                                                                         GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                                         Reference
Size or Age     Optimum               (a)    ST    NO Growth Limits
(mm)            `C
                         Range        MWAT Max     Upper               Lower   Location

YOY             28           14-31.5               35                  7       Lab and field i&ie du Dore, L. Huron)     Shuter et al 1980
                                                                       1O-12                                             EPA 1974
juvenile                              29                                       Tennessee R.. (outdoor exptal channels),  Wrenn 1990
                                                                       10      Alab.
juvenile/adult                        32/33 35                                 Lab                                       Coutant and DeAngelis 1983
                                                                                                                         McCauley and Casselman 1980
15-35SL; fry    25-26                                                                                                    McCauley and Casselman 1980
                25                                                                                                       McCauley and Casselman 1980
                29                                                                                                       Carlander 1977
                27

(a) MWAT (maxImtIm weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth)
(b) M~x~rnurr~ temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Micropterus dolomieui (smallmouth bass)

                                                                                                                 SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                Season                                 (b)
                and/or
                Accli-                                 ST Max                  k)        Id              (d)
                mation                                                         Lethal    Lethal          Median
                Temp                                   for             Accli-  Limit     Limit   Median  Lethal
                                                                                         Lower   Lethal  Final
                         Optimum      Temp   (a)       Embryo mation           Upper             AT
                         Temp         Range  MWAT
Event                                                  Survival Time                                             Location                  Reference

spawnrny                 18           15-17                                                                      Baie du Dore. L. Huron    Shuter et al 1980
                                                                                                                 Tennessee R., Ala.        Wrenn 1984
                                             17        26                                                        (outdoor expt. channel)
                                                                                                                                           EPA 1974
egg/larval               21                                        25          30        10                      Lab and field             Shuter et al 1980
                                      13-26                                                                      (Baie du Dore, L. Huron)
                                                                                                                                           Brown 1974
devel.                                                                                                           Lab (onshore discharge)   Brown 1974
                                                                                                                 Lab (tempering            Moore 1979 fdl
w               19                                                             29        17                      discharge)                Coutant 1977b
                                                                                                                                           Crippen and Fahmy 1981
em              16.1                                                           23.1              $7                                        Crippen and Fahmy 1981

heat shock 20                                                                                    +17     37

cold shock 27                                                                                    -20     2
heat shock 20
                                                                                                 +16.6

heat shock 20                                                                                    +17.7

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.

(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.

(c) Not incipient lettlal tcrnpcratures as deftned by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Slrnulated ldfvdl untralnnlent temperatures,
SPECIES: Micropterus salmoides (largemouth bass)

                                                                                                                                 THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-   Accli-         Upper       Lower   log time =                                 Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation         Incip.       Incip.                   Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp    Time     Sea-  Lethal       Lethal  a + b (temp)     Upper Lower Tamp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                           son  Temp         Temp                                                      (Min)
                                                         a  b                                                                    Location             fl8f8r8nC8

             12                     36                                                                                                                Cherry et al 1982
                                    33                                                                                                                EPA 1974
juvenile     20                     35           5                                                                                                    EPA 1974
                                    36           7                                                                                                    EPA 1974
             25                     36           11                                                                                                   EPA 1974
                                    32                                                                                                                Brown 1974
             30                     33           5.5                                                                                                  Brown 1974
                                    33.7         11.8                                                                                                 Brown 1974
             35                     32.5                                                                                                              Brown 1974
                                    34.5         10                                                                                                   Brown 1974
9-11 months 20                      36.4         15      35.5107 -1.0112                                                                              Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                      Brown 1974
9-11 months 25                      36.4                 19.9918 -0.5123                                                                              Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                      Brown 1974
S-11 months 30                      36.4                 17.5645 -0.4200
                                    31.5                                                                                                               Brown 1974
adult        20                                          50.8091 -1.4638 34    33                                                Put-in-Bay, Ohio     Brown 1974
                                    30.6                                                                                         Put-in-Bay. Ohio     Brown 1974
adult        25                     35                   26.3169 -0.6846 36.5 3 5                                                Put-in-Bay. Ohio     Brown 1974
                                    35                                                                                           Put-in-Bay, Ohio      Brown 1974
adult        30                                          29.0213 -0.7150 38.5 37                                                 Put-in-Bay, Ohio     Venables et al 1978
                                    35                                                                                           Knoxville, Tenn.
             20                                                                                                                                       Venables et al 1978
                                    40                                                                                           Knoxville, Tenn.
             30                                                                                                                  Lake Mendota, Wis.   Venables et al 1978
                                    40                                                                                           Lake Mendota, Wis.
under        30                                          36.0620 X1.9055 38.5 37                                                 Pennsylvania         Venables et al 1978
                                    40
yearling                                                                                                                                              Venables et al 1978

             35                                          23.9185 -0.9958 40    37.5                                                                   Venables et al 1978
                                                         34.3649 -0.9789 33.8  32.0
             22                                          35.2777 -0.9845 37.5  35.5                                                                   Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                                                                                                                                      Carlander 1977
             30                                                                                                                                       Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                                      Spotila et al 1979
             7.2     21 h                                                                                                                             Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                                      Spotila et al 1979
             11.1    43h                                                                                                                              Spotila et al 1979

0.18g;       15

fingerling

0.18g;       20                                                                                                                  Lab (Texas)
                                                                                                                                 Lab (Texas)
fingerling                                                                                                                       Lab (Texas)
                                                                                                                                 Lab (Texas)
0.18;        25                                                                                                                  Lab (Texas)
                                                                                                                                 Lab
fingerling

0.18;        30

fingerling

0.18;        35                                                                      40                    19m
                                                                                     15                    12-20h
fingerling
                                                                                                                          p12.0
0.18;        35

fingerling

adult        0.7              W
                                       36.7/389
e99s         20-21                     28.9
                                       32.5
             20                                                                                                    36.7
             28               SU 35.6                                                                              40.1
SPECIES: Micropterus salmoides (largemouth bass)

Size or Age   Season Day or Upper                  Final         Lower      Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                         Night Avoidance                                TempWatUre T i m e       Location
                                                   Preferendum Avoidance                                                                 Reference

large                                              26.6-27.7                                         Norris Res., Tenn.                  Coutant 1977a
large                                                                                                Par Pond, S.C.                      Coutant 1977a
72-99;                                30           27-30                                             L. Monona, Wis.                     Coutant 1977a
100-408;                                                                                             L. Monona, Wis.                     Coutant 1977a
100-408;                 D                         29.3-30.9                                         L. Monona, Wis.                     Coutant 1977a
adult                    N                                                                           small lakes, Tenn.                  Coutant 1977a
small                                              29.3-32                                           Lab                                 Coutant 1977a
small                                 29                                                             Lab                                 Coutant 1977a
adult                                              26.5-29.1                                         Pond C, Savannah Ft. GS,            Coutant 1977a
                                      30.7                                                           S.C.
110-160; YOY                          30           27            25.5                                Lab                                 Coutant 1977a
110-150; YOY                                                                                         Lab                                 Coutant 1977a
50-460g                                            30-32                                             Lab                                 Coutant 1977a
65-75TL;                                                                                                                                 Brown 1974
50-90TL;                                           29            27.5                                Lab                                 Brown 1974
adult                                                                                                Lab                                 Cravens 1981
adult                    D                         30.1                                              Lab                                 Talmage and Coutant 1979
                                                                                                     Lab                                 Talmage and Coutant 1979
                         D         34              30            21                                  Lab                                 Talmage and Coutant 1979
                                                                                                     Lab                                 Cherry et al 1982
                         N                         30.2                                              Connecticut R., Conn.               Cherry et al 1982
                                                                                                     (field occurrence)                  Marcy 1976a
                                   31              29.1          27.2

                                   30.6-32.8                                  25
                                                                              3-8
                                                   28                         12
                                                                              24
                                                   27-32
                                                                            Location
                         N                         29.5

                         D                         27.1

                                   24              30.4          9

                                   33                            21

                                   28.7            21.3          14.8

SPECIES: Micropterus salmoides (largemouth bass)

                                              (b)                                                    GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                                     Reference
Size or Age   Optimum                  (a)    ST          No Growth Limits
(mm)          "C
                            Range      MWAT Max           Upper      Lower

juvenile      25                                                                                     McCauley and Casselman 1980
                                                                                                     McCauley and Casselman 1980
subadult      26-28                                                                                  EPA 1974
                                                                                                     EPA 1974
                                       32     34                                                     EPA 1974
                                                                                                     Brown 1974
larval        27            20-30                                           Lab                      Brown 1974
                                                                                                     Coutant and DeAngelis 1983
juvenile      30            23-31                                           Lab                      Carlander 1977
                                                                            Texas reservoirs         Smagula and Adelman 1982
fry                         15.9-32.5                                       Lab                      Spotila et al 1979

              23.9                                                          Lab

15.35SL; fry 27

          fry               17.5-27.5                     >36        10
                  25-30

              18

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature -optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.
SPECIES: Micropterus salmoides (largemouth bass)

                                                                                                  SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

          Season                                  (b)
          and/or
          Accli-                                  ST Max          Id      ICI             IdI
          mation                                                  Lethal  Lethal
          Temp                                    for     Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median  Median
                                                                          Lower   Lethal
                  Optimum T e m p ( a )           Embryo mation   Upper           AT      Lethal

Event             Temp     Range M W A T          Survival Time                           Final   Location           Reference

                                        21        27                                                                 EPA 1974
                           12-20                  29-32
spawning          15.6-21  13-26                                                                  field              Carlander 1977
hatching          20
                                        23.9                                                                         EPA 1974
was
spawning                                                          32.5                                               Brown 1974

                                                                                                                     Brown 1974

                                                                                                  Lab (Wis., Minn.)  EPA 1978

embryo devel.20                                                   32.1                            Lab                Cravens 1982

embryo devel. 24                                                  32.1                            Lab                Cravens 1982

embryo devel.27                                                   32.1                            Lab                Cravens 1982

embryo devel.30                                                   32.1                            Lab                Cravens 1982

eggs      17-21                                                   26.7                            Lab (N.Y.)         Venables et al 1978
spawning
                  20                                                                              Lab (Minn.)        Carlander 1977
                                    1O-30
hatching                                                                                                             Carlander 1977

z heat shock Su                                                                   Cl0                                Brown 1974
cm (adult)

heat shock 15-35                                                                  + 20-25 35-40 Lab (Texas)          Venables et al 1978

(larval)

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
    SPECIES: Pomoxis annularis (white crappie)

                                                                                                                         THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                 Accli-  Accli-         Upper   Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                 mation                 Incip.  Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
                 Temp                           Lethal                Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
    Size or Age          mation Sea- Lethal     Temp    a + b (temp)                                   (Min)
    (mm)
                         Time    son Temp               a  b                                                             Location             Reference

    juvenile                              <33                                                                            Lab (UUILT)          EPA 1974
                                 su                                                                                      Lab                  Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
    adult        24.4                                                                                          >32.8

    SPECIES: Pomoxis annularis (white crappie)

                                                                                                               PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:

    Size or Age Season Day or Upper             Final      Lower       Acclimation Acclimation

z   (mm)                 Night Avoidance        Preferendum Avoidance  Temperature Time                        Location                       Reference
CD
                                                                                                                                              Coutant 1977a
    large                        27                        22                                                  Wabash R., Ind.                Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                               Lab                            Coutant 1977a
    adult        W                              19.8                                                           Lab                            Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                               Lab                            Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
    adult        SP                             18.3                                                           Lab                            Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                                               Ohio R.                        Yoder and Gammon 1976
    adult        F                              10.4                                                                                          Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                                               Kansas Reservoir               O'Brien et al 1984
    adult        su                             19.4                                                                                          O'Brien et al 1984

                 SU              31                        26

                 F               26                        18

                 W               8                         5

                 su      D       24-30          23

                 F       D                      23-24
SPECIES: Pomoxis annularis (white crappie)

                                                      (b)                                                                       GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age      Optimum                 (a)          ST   No Growth Limits                                                     Reference
(mm)             "C
                          Range          MWAT Max          Upper               Lower   Location                                 EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                Brown 1974
juvenile         25                      27                                                                                     Carlander 1977
                                                                                                                                Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                      32.2                     15.6                                             O'Brien et al 1984
                                                                   27                          Ohio R.

                 27-28.5
                                   5-30

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly averagetemperature for growth) = optimum i 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Pomoxis annularis (white crappie)

                                                                                                                                SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

0                Season                                                lb)
          Event  and/or
                 Accli-                                                ST Max          (cl              (c)             (dl
                 mation                                                                Lethal           Lethal          Median
                 Temp                                                  for     Accli-  Limit            Limit   Median  Lethal
                                                                                                        Lower   Lethal  Final
                          Optimum Temp (a)                             Embryo mation   Upper                    AT

                          Temp           Range MWAT                    Survival Time                                            Location  Reference

spawning sp/su            16-20          14-23                                                                                            EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                          EPA 1974
spawning                  18-20                                                                                                           EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                          Carlander 1977
                                                      18               23                                                                 O'Brien et al 1984

hatching                                     18.3-20

spawning                  14-16

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Pomoxis nigromaculatus (black crappie)

                                                                                                               THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-        Upper         Lower      log time =                Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation                Incip.        Incip.                               sure   tance   Thermal
             Temp                                Lethal                                Temp  Time    (Max)
Size or Age          mation Sea- Lethal          Temp       a + b (temp) Data Limits         (Min)
(mm)
                     Time son Temp                          a  -- b Upper  Lower                               Location               Reference

juvenile     29                    <33                                                                         Lab (UUILT)            EPA 1974
adult                                                                                                                                 Brown 1974
             7.2     1 "C/h        28.9                                                                        Lab                    Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
>200TL                                                                                                                                Carlander 1977
             23.8            su                                                                      34.9      Lab                    Leidy and Jenkins 1977
                                                                                                                                      Ellison 1984
                                   34

                                   32.5

                             s u 26-28                                                                         Hayes Centre L., Neb.
                                                                                                               (observed)

SPECIES: Pomoxis nigromaculatus (black crappie)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                 Final         Lower       Acclimation Acclimation   PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
   (mm)                     Night Avoidance                                Temperature Time          Location
                                                 Preferendum Avoidance                                                                Reference

large                D                           27.8-29.8                                           L. Monona, Wis.                  Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                     L. Monona, Wis.                  Coutant 1977a
large                N                           27-28.2                                             Lab                              Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                     Lab                              Coutant 1977a
small                        30                                26.5                                  Lab                              Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                     Lab                              Coutant 1977a
small                        29.5                              25.5                                  Lab                              Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                     Lab                              Coutant 1977a
adult        w                                   20.5                                                Lab                              Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                     Northern Wis. Lakes              EPA 1974
adult        BP                                  21                                                  Lab                              EPA 1974
                                                                                                     L. Monona, Wis.                  Brown 1974
adult        SU                                  21.7                                                Lab                              Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
                                                                                                     Lab                              Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
adult        F                                   22.2                                                L. Monona, Wis.                  Carlander 1977
                                                                                                     Connecticut R., Conn.            Marcy 1976a
medium                       26                  24            20                                    (field occurrence)

larvae       St1                                 18-20

adult        su              34                                24

75-88TL;                                         28.3

adult        w                                   20.7

adult        F                                   24.6

                             30.5                              24

                             27.3                21.3          16.5
72
SPECIES: Perca flavescens (yellow perch)

                                                                                                                          THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-         Upper        Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation  mation         Incip.       Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
Size or Age  Temp.   Time    Sea-                Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
(mm)                          son  Lethal        Temp                                                   (Min)
                                   Temp                  a  b                                                             Location                   Reference

adult        5                     21                                                                                     Toronto, Ontario           EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                                     EPA 1974
larvae       10                    10                                                                                     Columbia R., Oregon        EPA 1974
                                                                                                                          Black Ck., L.Simcoe, Ont.  EPA 1974
adult        11                    25                                                                                     Black Ck., L.Simcoe, Ont.  EPA 1974
                                                                                                                          Black Ck., L.Simcoe, Ont.  Spotila et al 1979
adult        15                    28                                                                                     Black Ck., L.Simcoe, Ont.  EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                                     EPA 1974
larvae       19                    19                                                                                     Lab                        Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                     Brown 1974
             18                    26.5                                                                                   Lab                        Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                     Brown 1974
adult        25              su 32.3                                                                                                                 Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                     Brown 1974
juvenile     25                                  4                                                                                                   Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                     Brown 1974
49; juvenile 19      4 day                               15.3601-0.4126 38 32                                                                        Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                     Hokanson 1977
4 yr; adult  5                     21.3                  7.0095-0.2214 26.5 22                                                                       Cherry et al 1977
                                                                                                                                                     Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
             11                           25.0   1.1     17.6536-0.6021 26.5 26                                                                      Jinks et al 1981
                                                                                                                                                     Jinks et al 1981
             15                           27.7           12.4149-0.3641 30.5 28.5                                                                    Dunford 1978
                                                                                                                                                     Hokanson 1977
             25                           28.7   3.7     21.2718-0.5909 33.0 30.0                                                                    Hokanson 1977

larvae                                    23.9                                                                                                       Hokanson 1977

voun9        22-23                        29.6                                     31.5                 240                                          Dunstall 1979
                                                                                                                                                     Dunstall 1979
young        22-23                        29.6                                     32                   60                                           Spotila et al 1979
                                                                                                                                                     Spotila et al 1979
young        22-23                        29.6                                     34                   15                                           Spotila et al 1979

125 TL adult 23-25           SU 30.9

30-50 TL                                  26

adult        22              SlJ                                                                                35

larval       15                           33.7                                                          10

                                          31.3                                                          30

larval                                           9.8

embryo                                    19.9   6.8

6-24 g       25              W 29.7                                                                             33.4

juvenile

0.5 g        28              su 33-34

juvenile

larval       7.6                          >24                                                                   34.8

larval       15.8                         >26.6                                                                 37.6

             22-24                        29.2

hatch                                     19.9   6.8

swim-up                                   18.8   9.8

larvae
    SPECIES: Perca flavescens (yellow perch)                                                                                                               Page 1 of 2

    Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final  Lower           Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:  Reference
    (mm)                        Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time         Location
                                                 Preferendum Avoidance                                                    Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                          Coutant 1977a
    small                                        12.2                                            Muskellunge L., Wis.     Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                 Muskellunge L., Wis.     Coutant 1977a
    large                                        20.2                                            Silver L.. Wis.          Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                 Nebish L., Wis.          Coutant 1977a
                                                 20.2                                            Trout L., Wis.           Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                 L. Nipissing, Ont.       Coutant 1977a
                                                 21.0                                            L. Opeongo, Ont.         Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                 Costello L., Ont.        Coutant 1977a
                                                 20.8                                            L. Michigan              Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                 Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                 19.7                                            Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                 Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                 21.1                                            Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                 Lab                      Coutant 1977a
    adult        w                               21.0                                            Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                 Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                        11                                       Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                 Lab                      Coutant 1977a
    small                                        21.0                                            Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                 Lab                      Coutant 1977a
    small                                        24.2                                            Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                 Lab                      Coutant 1977a
    small            D  26.5                     23.3   20.2                                     Lab                      Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                 Lab                      Coutant 1977a
    small            N  25                       22.5   19.5                                     Lab                      EPA 1974
                                                                                                 Lab                      EPA 1974
    small                                        23.3                                            Lab                      EPA 1974
                                                                                                 Ont. Lakes               EPA 1974
    adults                                       20.1                                            Lab                      Brown 1974
                                                                                                 Lab
    YOY          W                               1o-13

    YOY          SP                              18.0

    YOY          su                              25-27

2   YOY          F                               28.0
bP                                               7-12
    adult        W                               13-16
                                                 27.0
    adult        SP

    adult        su

    adult        F                               22-25

    adult        W                               14.1

    adult        su                              20.9

    adult        F                               19.9

    juvenile     w                               22

    juvenile     su                              24

    juvenile                                     20-23                  24

    adult                                        18-20                  24

    larva                                        13-18
SPECIES: Perca flavescens (yellow perch)                                                                                                                           Page 2 of 2

Size or Age   Season Day or Upper             Final       Lower      Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:            Reference
(mm)                         Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time         Location
                                              Preferendum Avoidance                                                              Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                 Brown 1974
small                30.5                                                                     L. Monona, Wis.
                     26                                                                                                          Brown 1974
underyear- W         33.3-34.4                13                     1                        Lab                                Brown 1974
                     21                                              20-22                    Lab                                Cherry et al 1977
lings                27                                              25                       Lab                                Cherry et al 1977
                     27                                              15                       Lab                                Cherry et al 1977
82-118TL             29                       23          20         18                       Lab                                Cherry et al 1977
                                                                     21                       L. Michigan                        Cherry et al 1977
121-169TL            >29                                             24                       L. Michigan                        Brandt et al 1980
                                                                                              Atikokan GS, Ont.                  Brapdt et al 1980
30-50FL                                       19.2        12         5                        Lab                                Haymes 1984
                                                                     10                       Lab                                EPA 1976
30-50FL                                       20.4        15         15                       Lab                                EPA 1976
                                                                     20                       Lab                                EPA 1976
30-50FL                                       21.1        18                                  Lab                                EPA 1976
                                                                     5.4                      Lab                                EPA 1976
30-50FL                                       22.4        18         0                        power plant thermal effluent       EPA 1976
                                                                     18                                                          Cravens et al 1983
30-50FL                                       21.4                                            Pokegamma Res., Minn.              Cravens et al 1983
                                                                     20                       near thermal outfall, Minn.        Cravens et al 1983
juvenile      F   D                           >15                    20                       L. Michigan                        Cravens 1981
                                                                     23                       Wickett L., Manitoulin Isl., Ont.  Cravens 1981
juvenile      F   N                           >17                    25                       Lab                                Talmage and Coutant 1980
                                                                                                                                 Talmage and Coutant 1980
larvae        su                              12-25                                           Keowee Res., S.C.                  Talmage and Coutant 1980

adult         F                               12.3-13.8                                                                          Talmage and Coutant 1980

adult         F                               13.5-18.8                                                                          Talmage and Coutant 1979
                                                                                                                                 Talmage and Coutant 1979
adult         F                               17.6-20.2                                                                          Clugston et al 1978
                                                                                                                                 Clugston et al 1978
adult         F                               16.1-24.2                                                                          Clugston et al 1978

adult         Wi                              25

adult         su                              17

adult         Wi                              6.3

adult                                         8.0

adult                                         22

              Wi                              5.4

              Wi                              6.3

adult         F                               7-8, 11-17

                                              14-19

60 g                                          20.2

newly hat-                                    24.3
 ched larvae

8-11          SP                              24.2
                                              21.7
adult         su                              12-16
                                              18-21
juvenile      su                              20-24
SPECIES: Perca flavescens (yellow perch)

                                          (b)                                                       GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age  Optimum             (a)      ST   No Growth Limits                                     Reference
(mm)         "C
                      Range      MWAT Max      Upper       Lower   Location                         EPA 1974
                                                                                                    EPA 1974
                                 22       29                                                        McCauley and Casselman 1980
                                                                                                    Smagula and Adelman 1982
adult                 13-20                                12.513                                   Leidy and Jenkins 1977
                                                                                                    Leidy and Jenkins 1977
juvenile     22.5                                                                                   Leidy and Jenkins 1977
                                                                                                    Jobling 1981
             23                                                                                     Jobling 1981
                                                                                                    Jobling 1981
juvenile              20-23.3                                                                       Kitchell et al 1977
adult                 17.6-20.1                                                                     Kitchell et al 1977
                                                                                                    Ney 1978
             24.2                                                                                   Casselman 1978

5.2-23.7 g   23

0.5 g        28

             23-24

YOY          29                                32

juvenile/adult 23                              28

             26-30

             24.7

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 113 (upper incipient lethal temperature -optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Perca flavescens (yellow perch)                                                                                                               Page 1 of 2

                                                                                                    SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                ST Max          (c)       (c)            id1
             mation                                                Lethal    Lethal Median  Median
             Temp                                  for     Accli-  Limit     Limit Lethal   Lethal
                                                                             L o w e r ;\T  Final
                      Optimum T e m p ( a )        Embryo mation   Upper

Event                 Temp       Range MWAT        Survival Time                                    Location                             Reference

spawning              12         7-15     12       20                                                                                    EPA 1974
                                                                                                                                         EPA 1974
incubation/           1o-20      7-20
                                                                                                                                         Brown 1974
hatch                                                                                                                                    Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                         Brown 1974
wintering             <6         4-11                                                                                                    Ellis 1984
                                                                                                                                         Teleki 1976
spawning              7.8-l 2.2 7-16                                                                                                     Dunford 1978

incubation                       7-15                                                               L. Monona, Wis.

heat shock                                                         32                               Big Point, Bay of
                                                                                                    Quinte, L. Ont.
                                                                   <37

spawning              5-6        3
SPECIES: Perca flavescens (yellow perch) (Cont'd)                                                                                                         Page 2 of 2

                                                                                                  SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

       Season                                      bJ
       and/or
       Accli-                                      ST Max          (CJ     (cl            (dJ
       mation                                                      Lethal  Lethal
       Temp                                        for     Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median Median
                                                                           Lower
                     Optimum    Temp (a)           Embryo mation   Upper           Lethal Lethal
                     Temp       Range M W A T
Event                                              Survival Time                   AT     Final   Location                  Reference

larval devel         13.1-18.2                                                                    Lab                       Griffiths 1978
hatching
hatching             <12        8-19                                                              Lab                       Griffiths 1978
heat shock 7
spawning             8.4        7-10                                                              Lab                       Griffiths 1978
spawning
spawning                                                                           +17    24                                Moore 1979(d)
incubation
Incubation           8-10                                                                         Long Point Bay, L. Erie   Talmage and Coutant 1978
heat shock/ 7        10
                     10                                                                           Lab                       Talmage and Coutant 1980
  larvae             9.9
heat shock/ 7        <16                                                                          Keowee Res., S.C.         Talmage and Coutant 1980

  larvae                                                                                          Lab                       Talmage and Coutant 1980
heat shock/ 7
                                                                   22                             Lab                       Wyman 1981
  larvae
                                                                                   +17            Lab; simulated onshore    Crippen and Fahmy 1981
spawning
spawning                                                                                          discharge
spawning
                                                                                   +21.6          Lab; simulated tempering  Crippen and Fahmy 1981
heat shock 7.6-15.8
  (larval)                                                                                        discharge

                                                                                   +15.5          Lab; simulated offshore   Crippen and Fahmy 1981

                                                                                                  discharge

                     6-12       4-18.5 11.9                                                       L. Opinicon, L. Ont.      Hokanson 1977
                     <9-10      7.2-l 1                                                           Wisc.                     Houston 1982
                                                                                                  Lab; simulated once-      Thorpe 1977
                                                                                   >1-15                                    Clugston et al 1978
                                                                                                   through cooling          Dunstall 1979

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
    SPECIES: Stizostedion canadense (sauger)

                                                                                                                                     THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                 Accli- Accli-                   Upper   Lower      log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                                                 Incip.  Incip.                   Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
                                                         Lethal                   Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
    Size or Age  mation mation Sea Lethal                Temp       a + b (temp)                                   (Min)
    (mm)
                 Temp Time s o n T e m p                            a      b                                                         Location             Reference

    119; juvenile 25.8          F 30.4                                                                                                                    Hokanson 1977
                                        20.9 6.0                                                                                                          Hokanson 1977
    larval                              26.6                                                                                                              Smith and Koenst 1975
                                        26.7                                                                                                              Smith and Koenst 1975
    119; juvenile 10.1                  28.4                                      27                               114               Lab                  Smith and Koenst 1975
                                        28.6                                                                                                              Smith and Koenst 1975
    119; juvenile 12.0                  28.7                                      28                               68                Lab                  Smith and Koenst 1975
                                        29.5                                                                                                              Smith and Koenst 1975
    119; juvenile 13.9                   29.9                                     30                               16                Lab                  Smith and Koenst 1975
                                        30.4                                                                                                              Smith and Koenst 1975
    119; juvenile 16.0                   30.4                                     30                               18                Lab                  Smith and Koenst 1975
                                         31                                                                                                               EPA 1974
    119; juvenile 18.3                                                            30                               19                Lab

    119; juvenile 19.9                                                            31                               122               Lab

    119; juvenile 22.0                                                            31                               545               Lab

    119; juvenile 23.9                                                            32                               348               Lab

    119; juvenile 25.8                                                            32                               246               Lab

    juvenile     26

    SPECIES: Stizostedion canadense (sauger]

z                                                                                                                          PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
03                                                                                                                         Location

    Size or Age S e a s o n D a y o r U p p e r          Final         Lower      Acclimation Acclimation
                                                                                  Temperature Time
    (mm)                Night Avoidance                  Preferendum Avoidance                                                                            Reference

    large                                                19.2                                                              Norris Res., Tenn.             Coutant 1977a
    large                                                                                                                  Wabash R., Ind.                Coutant 1977a
                                28                                     22                                                                                 Jobling 1981
                                                                                                                           lake                           Jobling 1981
                                                         22.6                                                              stream                         Hokanson 1977
                                                                                                                           field                          Hokanson 1977
                                                         21.3                                                              Wabash Ft., Ind.               EPA 1974
                                                                                                                           power plant, Ohio R.           EPA 1974
                                                         18.6-19.2                                                         power plant, Ohio R.           Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                                                           power plant, Ohio R.           Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                         22-28                                                             Norris Res., Tenn.             Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                                                                                           Norris Res., Tenn.             Brown 1974
                                                         19                                                                Lewis and Clark Res., S.D.     Brown 1974
                                                                                                                                                          Brown 1974
    adult        su                                      27-29

                 F                                       14-21

                 W                                       8-11

                                                         26-28

                 SP                                      7.2
                 su
                                                         21.1

                                                         <20
SPECIES: Stizostedion canadense (sauger)

                                             (b)                                                           GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

Size or Age  Optimum              (a)        ST   No Growth Limits                                         Reference
(mm)         "C
                         Range    MWAT Max        Upper       Lower      Location                          Smith and Koenst 1975
                                                                                                           EPA 1974
juvenile     22          16.1-26                  26                     Lab                               Talmage and Coutant 1980
                                                                                                           Fitz and Holbrook II 1978
                                  25         30

                                                              5

             315.4

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth).
(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

SPECIES: Stizostedion canadense (sauger)

                                                                                                           SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                   (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                   ST Max             ICI       (c)             (d)
             mation                                                      Lethal    Lethal          Median
             Temp                                     for        Accli-  Limit     Limit   Median  Lethal
                                                                                   Lower   Lethal  Final
                      Optimum     Temp (a)            Embryo mation      Upper             AT
                      Temp        Range M W A T
Event                                                 Survival Time                                        Location                       Reference

spawning                          4-14.4                                                                   N. Dak., Tenn.                 Hokanson 1977
spawning                                                                                                   Norris Res., Tenn              Hokanson 1977
incubation            9-15                                                                                                                Hokanson 1977
spawning                                                                                                                                  Smith and Koenst 1975
                      12-15                                                                                                               EPA 1974
spawning                                                                                                                                  EPA 1974
incubation/           9           S-12                                                                                                    EPA 1974

 hatch                                       10       21                                                                                  Brown 1974
spawning
                      10          6-14

                      12-15       1O-16

                                  3.0-l 1 1

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Stizostedion vitreum (walleye)

                                                                                                                        THERMAL TOLERANCES:

Size or Age  Accli-  Accli-  Sea-   Upper    Lower            log time =                       Expo-  Resis-  Critical  Location                 Reference
(mm)         mation  mation   son   Incip.   Incip.           a -C b (temp) Data Limits        sure   tance   Thermal
             Temp    Time          Lethal    Lethal           - - - - U bp p e r L o w e r  Temp      Time    (Max)
                                   Temp      Temp                                                     (Min)

115; juvenile 25.8           F 31.6                                                                                                              Hokanson 1977
                                     19.2 6.0                                                                                                    Hokanson 1977
larval                               27                                                                                                          Smith and Koenst 1975
                                     28.6                                                                                                        Smith and Koenst 1975
115; juvenile 8.0                    29                                                                                 Lab                      Smith and Koenst 1975
                                     29.5                                                                                                        Smith and Koenst 1975
115; juvenile 10.1                   30.6                                                                               Lab                      Smith and Koenst 1975
                                     30.5                                                                                                        Smith and Koenst 1975
115; juvenile 12.1                   30.5                                                                               Lab                      Smith and Koenst 1975
                                     30.5                                                                                                        Smith and Koenst 1975
115; juvenile 13.9                   31.5                                                                               Lab                      Smith and Koenst 1975
                                                                                                                                                 Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
115; juvenile 16.0           su                                                                                         Lab                      Ellis 1984
                                      28.9                                                                                                       Ellis 1984
115; juvenile 18.2                   31                                                                                 Lab                      Wrenn and Forsythe 1978
                                      34
115; juvenile 20.2                                                                                                      Lab

115; juvenile 22.1                                                                                                      Lab

115; juvenile 24.0                                                                                                      Lab

adult        23.3                                                                                             234.4     Lab

adult        7.2

adult

42;          26                                                                                                         Wheeler Res.. Tenn.

SPECIES: Stizostedion vitreum (walleye)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final            Lower  Acclimation Acclimation                  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                          Temperature Time                         Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                                               Reference

large                                              20.6                                                       Trout Lake, Wis.                   Coutant 1977a
large                                              23.2                                                       Norris Res., Tenn.                 Coutant 1977a
                                                   23                                                                                            Jobling 1981
larvae       SP                                    20.6-23.2                                                  field                              Houston 1982
                                                   21                                                         field                              Houston 1982
adult                                              16                                                         Atikokan GS, Ont.                  Haymes 1984
adult                                              10.6-11.2                                                  (epilimnion) West Blue Lake, Man.  Talmage and Coutant 1980
                             24                                                                               Norris Res., Tenn.                 Fitz and Holbook II 1978
                             21                                                                               L. Winnibigoshish, Minn.           lnskip and Magnuson 1983
                                                   22                                                                                            Spotila et al 1979
                                                   20                                                                                            Spotila et al 1979
SPECIES: Stizostedion vitreum (walleye)

                                         (b)                                            GROWTH TEMPERATURES:
                                                                                        Reference
Size or Age  Optimum         (a)         ST     No Growth Limits
(mm)         "C
                      Range  MWAT Max           Upper  Lower      Location

                             25          31                                             This study

                                                27                                      Cheshire and Steel 1972

age 0                 12-28                            12         West Blue Lake. Man.  Kelso and Ward 1972

85           22.1                               29                                      Hokanson 1977

65           25.2                                                                       Hokanson 1977

1.81-2.00 g 22        19-25                                                             Smith and Koenst 1975

                                         32-33                    outdoor experimental channels, Alabama Talmage and Coutant 1980

             22.6                                                                       Casselman 1978

<35; fry     15                                 20     10         Lab                   Nickum 1978

425;         22                                 27                Lab                   Nickum 1978

fingerling

(a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum t 113 (upper incipient lethal temperature -optimum temp for growth).

(b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.
    SPECIES: Stizostedion vitreum (walleye)

                                                                                                            SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                  Season                             (b)
                  and/or
                  Accli-                             ST Max          (c)     (c)                    (4
                  mation                                             Lethal   Lethal
                  Temp                               for     Accli-  Limit   Limit    Median        Median
                                                                             Lower    Lethal
                          O p t i m u m T e m p (a)  Embryo mation   Upper            AT            Lethal

    Event                 Temp       Range MWAT      Survival Time                                  Final   Location                    Reference

    spawning                         2.2-15.6                                                               Wis.                        Hokanson 1977
                                     6-12                                                                                               Hokanson 1977
    hatching              6          4.4-14.4                                                               Lab                         Marshall 1977
                          8                                                                                 Lab                         Smith and Koenst 1975
    spawning              9-15                                                                              Lab                         Smith and Koenst 1975
                          6-12                                                                              Lab                         Smith and Koenst 1975
    hatching              19-15                                                                             Lab                         Smith and Koenst 1975
                          9-21                                                                                                          Smith and Koenst 1975
    spawning                                                                                                Lab
                                                                                                                                        Smith and Koenst 1975
    incubation                                                               20.9                           Lab
                                                                                                                                        Smith and Koenst 1975
    larval devel                                                                                            Lab
                                                                                                                                        Smith and Koenst 1975
    heat shock 6                                                     21               "i-15                 Kawartha Lakes, Ont.
                                                                                                            Northern Minn.              Smith and Koenst 1975
    (fry-5 day)                                                                                             Manitoba                    Smith and Koenst 1975
                                                                                                            Lake Gogebic, Mich.         Smith and Koenst 1975
    cold shock 11                                                            6        -5                    Muskegon R., Mich.          Smith and Koenst 1975
                                                                                                            Bay of Quinte, L. Ont.      Smith and Koenst 1975
    (fry-2 day)                                                                                             Northern Wis.               Smith and Koenst 1975
                                                                                                            Lab                         Smith and Koenst 1975
    cold shock 21                                                            6        -15                   Clinch and Powell R, Tenn.  Smith and Koenst 1975
                                                                                                            Wheeler Res., Tenn. Ft.,    Smith and Koenst 1975
    (fry-7 day)                                                                                                                         Talmage and Coutant 1980
                                                                                                            Lab                         Wrenn and Forsythe 1978
    cold shock 25                                                            8.1      -16.9
                                                                                                            Lab                         Smith and Koenst 1975
    (80-100 mm)                                                                                                                         This study
                                                                                                                                        Spotila et al 1979
    hatching              17.8-19.4
                          6.1-8.3                                                                                                       Griffiths 1981
z   spawning              7.8-8.9    4.4-10.0
LQ  incubation                       6.7-13.0
                          7.2-10
    spawning              4.4-6.7    8-12
                          3.4-10
    spawning              5-10
                          16.7-19.4
    spawning

    spawning

    spawning

    hatching

    spawning

    heat shock 26                                                                               +6
                                                                     20
    (42 mm)

    juvenile              21
                          7.1-9.9
                                               8.9   15.6

    spawning

    incubation            10.5-15.5 5-19

    (a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
    (b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
    (c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
    (d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Ammocrypta pellucida (eastern sand darter)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final      Lower       Acclimation Acclimation                PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time                       Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                                        Reference

                                             25                                                            Chateauguay R., Que            Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                                          Scott and Crossman 1973
                                             24                                                            Lake of Two Mountains, Que.

SPECIES: Etheostoma blennoides (greenside darter)

                                                                                                                     THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-  Accli-  Upper           Lower   log time =                             Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation          Incip.          Incip.                Data Limits sure                tance   Thermal
             Temp                            Lethal                Upper Lower Temp                Time    (Max)
Size or Age          mation Sea- Lethal      Temp    a + b (temp)                                  (Min)
(mm)
                     Time s o n T e m p              a  b                                                            Location             Reference

             15                                                                                            32.2      Lab (N.Y.)           Kowalski et al 1978
SPECIES: Etheostoma caeruleum (rainbow darter)

             Accli-  Accli-          Upper   Lower     log time =                    Expo-   Resis-  Critical  THERMAL TOLERANCES:
             mation  mation          Incip.  Incip.                                  sure    tance   Thermal   Location
Size or Age  Temp    Time     Sea-  Lethal   Lethal    a -t b (temp) -Data Limits -   Temp   Time    (Max)
(mm)                           son  Temp     Temp                                            (Min)
                                                       a    -- b Upper  Lower                                                       Reference

             15                                                                                      32.1      Lab (N.Y.)           Kowalski et al 1978

SPECIES: Etheostoma caeruleum (rainbow darter)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                Final       Lower       Acclimation Acclimation      PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                             Temperature Time             Location
                                                Preferendum Avoidance                                                               Reference
                                                                                                                                    Floyd et al 1984
prolarva     SP                                 20                                                   Drake's Ck., Ky.

SPECIES: Etheostoma caeruleum (rainbow darter)

                                                                                                               SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                    (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                    ST Max           (c)          h-2)            (d)
             mation                                                     Lethal       Lethal          Median
             Temp                                      for     Accli-   Limit        Limit   Median  Lethal
                                                                                     Lower   Lethal  Final
                     Optimum Temp (a)                  Embryo mation    Upper                AT

Event                Temp           Range MWAT         Survival Time                                           Location             Reference

hatching             17-18.5                                                                                                        Scott and Crossman 1973
(IId)

( a ) M W A T = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for Spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Etheostoma exile (Iowa darter)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final       Lower      Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time         Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                          Reference
                                                                                                                            Haymes 1984
larval       Sp/Su                           12-25                                           Field, Atikokan GS site, Ont.

SPECIES: Etheostoma exile (Iowa darter)

                                                                                                     SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                 04
             and/or
             Accli-                                 ST Max          (4      tct              (d)
             mation                                                 Lethal  Lethal           Median
             Temp                                   for     Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median   Lethal
                                                                            Lower   Lethal   Final
                     O p t i m u m T e m p (at      Embryo mation   Upper           AT

Event                Temp   Range M W A T           Survival Time                                    Location               Reference

hatching             13-16                                                                                                  Scott and Crossman 1973

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
     SPECIES: Etheostoma flabellare (fantail darter)

                                                                                                                     THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                  Accli-  Accli-         Upper        Lower   log time =                   Expo-   Resis-  Critical
                  mation  mation         incip.       Incip.                                       tance   Thermal
     Size or Age  Tamp    Time    Sea-  Lethal        Lethal  a + b (temp) Data Limits sure        Time    (Max)
     (mm)                          son  Temp          Temp                                         (Min)
                                                              a         b  Upper Lower Temp                          Location             Reference

                  15                                                                                       32.1      Lab, N.Y.            Kowalski et al 1978

     SPECIES: Etheostoma flabellare /fantail darter)

                                                                                                                     SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                  Season                                      tbl
                  and/or
                  Accli-                                      ST Max               (c)     b.4             (4
                  mation                                                           Lethal  Lethal          Median
                  Temp                                        for          Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median  Lethal
                                                                                           Lower   Lethal  Final
                          Optimum Temp (a)                    Embryo mation        Upper           AT

     Event                Temp          Range MWAT            Survival Time                                          Location             Reference

     hatching             21.1                                                                                                            Scott and Crossman 1973

     spawning             21-22         18.9-24.4                                                                    N.Y.                 Brown 1974
                          23.5          7-15
,'   spawning                                                                                                        N.Y.                 Cooper 1979
                                        17-20
O-2  migration

     hatching                                                                                                                             Cooper 1979

     (30-354)

     hatching                                                                                                                             Cooper 1979

     L'ldt

     hatching                                                                                                                             Cooper 1979

     (14-16d)

     SPECIES: Etheostoma microperca (least darter)

                                                                                                                     SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                  Season  Optimum Temp (a)                    (b)          Accli-  Id      (c)             Median
                  and/or                                      ST Max       mation  Lethal  Lethal Median   Lethal
     Event        Accli-  Temp          Range MWAT            for          Time    Limit   Limit Lethal    Final     Location             Reference
                  mation                                      Embryo                       Lower AT
                  Temp                                        Survival             Upper

     hatching             18-20                                                                                                           Scott and Crossman 1973

     (a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
     (b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
     (c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
     (d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
    SPECIES: Etheostoma nigrum (johnny darter)

                                                                                                                          THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                 Accli-  Accli-         Upper    Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                 mation  mation         Incip.   Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
    Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-            Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
    (mm)                          son  Lethal    Temp                                                   (Min)
                                       Temp              a       b                                                        Location             Reference

                 15              W                                                                              30.7      N.Y. Lab             Kowalski et al 1978
                                                                                                                                               Kowalski et al 1978
                 15              SP                                                                             31.4      N.Y. Lab

    SPECIES: Etheostoma nigrum (johnny darter)

    Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final        Lower          Acclimation Acclimation            PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
    (mm)                        Night Avoidance                              Temperature Time                   Location
                                                 Preferendum Avoidance                                                                         Reference

                                                 11-22                                                          Oswego GS, L. Ont.             Wyman 1981
                                                                                                                Drake's Ck., Ky.               Floyd et al 1984
    larval       SP                              17-20                                                          Connecticut Ft., Conn.         Marcy 1976a
                                                                                                                (field occurrences)
                                 28.8            24.5         20.1

z
-a

    SPECIES: Etheostoma nigrum (johnny darter)

                                                                                                                          SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                 Season                                  (b)
                 and/or
                 Accli-                                  ST Max              (c)     (c)                        (d)
                 mation                                                      Lethal  Lethal Median              Median
                 Temp                                    for         Accli-  Limit   Limit Lethal               Lethal
                                                                                     L o w e r bT               Final
                         Optimum       Temp (a)          Embryo mation       Upper
                         Temp          Range MWAT
    Event                                                Survival Time                                                    Location             Reference

    hatching             22-24                                                                                            L. Erie,             Scott and Crossman 1973

    (a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
    (b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
    (c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
    (d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Percina caprodes (logperch)

Size or Age        Season Day or Upper             Final  Lower             Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                              Night Avoidance                           Temperature Time         Location
                                                   Preferendum Avoidance                                                      Reference

larval             SP                              16                                                Field, Atikokan GS site  Haymes 1984
larval             SP                              9-16                                              Mississippi R.           Holland and Sylvester 1983
prolarva           SP                              11.8                                              Drake's Ck., Ky.         Floyd et al 1984
mesolarva          SP                              20-23                                             Drake's Ck., Ky.         Floyd et al 1984
metalarva          spisu                           21-25                                             Drake's Ck., Ky.         Floyd et al 1984

SPECIES: Percina caprodes (logperch)

                                                                                                             SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

Liz                Season  Optimum Temp (a)               (b)       Accli-  (c)     k)               (4
co                 and/or                                 ST Max    mation  Lethal  Lethal Median    Median
                   Accli-  Temp       Range M W A T       for       Time    Limit   Limit Lethal     Lethal  Location         Reference
            Event  mation                                 Embryo                    L o w e r i\T    Final
                   Temp                                   Survival          Upper

egg/larval                            22-25                                                                  Texas            Brown 1974

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures,
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Percina copelandi (channel darter)

                                                                                                   SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

          Season                                 (b)
          and/or
          Accli-                                 ST Max          (c)      (4               (d)
          mation                                                 Lethal   Lethal           Median
          Temp                                   for     Accli-  Limit    Limit    Median  Lethal
                                                                         Lower     Lethal  Final
                  Optimum Temp (a)               Embryo mation   Upper            AT

Event             Temp     Range MWAT            Survival Time                                     Location              Reference

spawning                   20.5-21.2                                                               Cheboygan Ft., Mich.  Scott and Crossman 1973

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et a) (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

z

CD SPECIES: Percina maculata (blackside darter)

                                                                                                   SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

          Season                                 (b)
          and/or
          Accli-                                 ST Max          (c)     (4                Ml
          mation                                                 Lethal  Lethal            Median
          Temp                                   for     Accli-  Limit   Limit    Median   Lethal
                                                                         Lower    Lethal   Final
                  Optimum  Temp (a)              Embryo mation   Upper            AT
                  Temp     Range M W A T
Event                                            Survival Time                                     Location              Reference

spawning          16.5                                                                             S. Michigan           Scott and Crossman 1973

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Aplodinotus grunniens (freshwater drum)

                                                                                                                                   THERMAL TOLERANCES:

             Accli-       Accli-            Upper   Lower   log time =                                    Expo-  Resis-  Critical
             mation       mation            Incip.  Incip.                                                       tance   Thermal
Sire or Age  Temp         Time    Sea-     Lethal   Lethal  a + b (temp)         Data L-imits - s u r e          Time    (Max)
(mm)                               son     Temp     Temp                         Upper Lower Temp                (Min)
                                                            a                 b                                                    Location                     Reference

adult        21.2                                                                                                        34.0      Lab                          Reutter and Herdendorf 1976
YOY          29-35                                                                                                                                              Houston 1982
                                          32.8                                                                                                                  Jinks et al 1981
                                  su 32.8                                        32.8                            2880

SPECIES: Aplodinotus grunniens [freshwater drum)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper                    Final      Lower             Acclimation Acclimation                 PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                      Temperature Time                        Location
                                                    Preferendum Avoidance                                                                                       Reference

large                                  30           22.2                                                                    Norris Res., Tenn                   Coutant 1977a
large                     D                                               22                                             Wabash R., Ind.                        Coutant 1977a
small                     N                                                                                                                                     Coutant 1977a
small        su                                     29.5-30.3                                                               L. Monona, Wis.                     Coutant 1977a
YOY          su                                     27.529                                                                  L. Monona, Wis.                     Coutant 1977a
adult        F                                      31.3                                                                    Lab                                 Coutant 1977a
adult                                               26.5                                                                    Lab                                 Coutant 1977a
                                                    19.6                                                                    Lab                                 Brown 1974
                      F                             21.1-26.1                                                               Lewis and Clark L., S.D. (CUE)      Brown 1974
                      Wi                            22                                                                      thermal discharge, Ohio R.          Brown 1974
5-10; larvae Su                                     29-31                                                                   thermal discharge, Wabash R., Ind.  Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                    22-30                                                                   J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R., Ohio       Yoder and Gammon 1976
                                                    6-11                                                                    J.M. Stuart GS, Ohio R., Ohio       Cada and Hergenrader 1980
                                                    20-28                                                                   Missouri R., Nebr. (CUE)
     SPECIES: Aplodinotus grunniens (freshwater drum)

                                         (b)                                                               GROWTH TEMPERATURES:

     Size or Age  Optimum         (a)    ST            No Growth Limits                                    Reference
     (mm)         "C
                           Range  MWAT Max             Upper   Lower     Location                          Brown 1974
                                                                                                           Brown 1974
                  22                                           14.4      L. Erie                           This study

                                                               18.3      L. Erie

                                  25.6   33

     (a) MWAT (maximum weekly average temperature for growth) = optimum + 1/3 (upper incipient lethal temperature - optimum temp for growth)
     (b) Maximum temperature for short-term exposure during growth season to protect against lethal effects.

     SPECIES: Aplodinotus grunniens (freshwater drum)

                                                                                                           SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

                  Season                               (b)
                  and/or
                  Accli-                               ST Max            (c)       (4              (d)
                  mation                                                 Lethal    Lethal          Median
                  Temp                                 for     Accli-    Limit     Limit   Median  Lethal
                                                                                   Lower   Lethal  Final
=:                         O p t i m u m T e m p (a)   Embryo mation     Upper             AT

c-L  Event                 Temp   Range MWAT           Survival Time                                       Location                           Reference

     spawning              21     18922.2                                                                  Wis.                               Brown 1974
     spawning                                                                                              Lewis and Clark L., S.D.           Brown 1974
     hatching                     18.0-24.5                                                                                                   Brown 1974
     (36-22h)                                                                                              L. Erie
     hatching                     21-25                                                                    winter thermal discharge,          Brown 1974
     heat shock W                                                                                          Sandusky R.                        Brown 1974
                           23.9
     spawning                                                                                                                                 EPA 1974
     incubation                                                          35.6                                                                 EPA 1974
     and hatch                                                                                                                                EPA 1974
     cold shock 27                           21        26
                                                                                                                                              Coutant 1977b
                           21     19-24

                                  22-26

                                                                                   9       -18

     (a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
     (b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
     (c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
     (d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
SPECIES: Cottus bairdii (mottled sculpin)

                                           Upper Lower                                                                  Resis-            THERMAL TOLERANCES:
                                                                                                                        tance             Location
                    Accli- Accli-          Incip. Incip. log time =                  Expo-                              Time    Critical
                                                                                                                        (Min)   Thermal
Size or Age         m a t i o n m a t i o n S e a - L e t h a l L e t h a l a + b ( t e m p ) D a t a L i m i t s sure          (Max)
(mm)
                    T e m p T i m e s o n T e m p Temp     ab           Upper Lower Temp                                                                       Reference
                                                                                                                                                               Spotila et al 1979
                    15                                                                                                          30.9

SPECIES: Cottus bairdii (mottled sculpin)

Size or Age         Season Day or Upper             Final        Lower       Acclimation Acclimation                            PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                               Night Avoidance                           Temperature Time                                   Location
                                                    Preferendum Avoidance                                                                                      Reference

                                                    16.5                                                                        S. Ontario streams             Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                                                               Wyman 1981
                                                    16.7

SPECIES: Cottus bairdii (mottled sculpin)

z                                                                                                                                         SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:
I-.3
                    Season  Optimum Temp (a)               (b)       Accli-  (Cl     (c)                                Median  (4
             Event  and/or                                 ST Max    mation  Lethal  Lethal                             Lethal  Median
                    Accli-  Temp   Range MWAT              for       Time    Limit   Limit                              AT      Lethal    Location             Reference
                    mation                                 Embryo            Upper   Lower                                      Final
                    Temp                                   Survival

spawning                    12.8   5.0 - 16.1                                                                                             Lab                  Brown 1974
hatching                                                                                                                                                       Brown 1974
                                   7.8-17.3
 (21-28d)                                                                                                                                                      Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning                    10                                                                                                            Field, N.Y.          Scott and Crossman 1973
cold shock 18.7                                                                                                                                                This study
                                                                                                                        7       - 1 1 . 7 L. Huron, (Seiche)

                                                    10     16.1

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for Spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
   SPECIES: Cottus cognatus (slimy sculpin)

                                                                                                                         THERMAL TOLERANCES:

                Accli-  Accli-         Upper    Lower   log time =                              Expo-  Resis-  Critical
                mation  mation         Incip.   Incip.                Data Limits sure                 tance   Thermal
   Size or Age  Temp    Time    Sea-            Lethal  a + b (temp)  Upper Lower Temp                 Time    (Max)
   (mm)                          son  Lethal    Temp                                                   (Min)
                                      Temp              a     b                                                          Location             Reference

   40-l 00                            26.5                                                                               Lab, L. Mich.        Otto and Rice 1977
                                                                                                                                              Otto and Rice 1977
   70-80        5               SP 18.5         <1                                                             22.7      Lab, L. Mich.        Otto and Rice 1977
                                                                                                                                              Otto and Rice 1977
   70-80        10              SP 22.5         <1                                                             24.8      Lab, L. Mich.        Otto and Rice 1977
                                                                                                                                              Otto and Rice 1977
   70-80        15              S P 23.5        3.5                                                            26.3      Lab, L. Mich.        Otto and Rice 1977
                                                                                                                                              Otto and Rice 1977
   70-80        20              SP                                                                             29.4      Lab, L. Mich.        Otto and Rice 1977
                                w                                                                                                             Otto and Rice 1977
   80-100       5                                                                                              24        Lab, L. Mich.        Otto and Rice 1977
                                                                                                                                              Otto and Rice 1977
   80-l 00      10              w                                                                              25.1      Lab, L. Mich.        Otto and Rice 1977
                                                                                                                                              Otto and Rice 1977
   80-l 00      15              w                                                                              27.3      Lab, L. Mich.        Otto and Rice 1977
                                                                                                                                              Talmage 1978
   80-100       20              w                                                                              29.4      Lab, L. Mich.

   40-100       5                                                          19                          305               Lab, L. Mich.

   40-100       5                                                          22                          25                Lab, L. Mich.

   40-100       10                                                         23                          8800              Lab, L. Mich.

   40-100       10                                                         26                          8                 Lab, L. Mich.

   40-100       15                                                         24                          3000              Lab, L. Mich.

   40-100       15                                                         27                          35                Lab, L. Mich.

s  40-100       20                    25
0

   SPECIES: Cottus cognatus (slimy sculpin)

   Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final      Lower       Acclimation Acclimation                     PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
   (mm)                        Night Avoidance                         Temperature Time                            Location
                                                Preferendum Avoidance                                                                         Reference

   large                        6                          4                                                        L. Michigan               Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                                    L. Michigan               Brandt et al 1980
                                                6-8                                                                L. Michigan                Brandt et al 1980
                                                                                                                    Lab                       Otto and Rice 1977
                F       N                       4-6                                                                                           Otto and Rice 1977
                                                                                                                    Lab                       Otto and Rice 1977
                                15.2            9                      5                                            Lab                       Otto and Rice 1977
                                                                                                                    Lab                       Talmage 1978
                                21.5            12                     15

                                                10

                                16                                     10

                                                13                     20
SPECIES: Cottus cognatus (slimy sculpin)

                                                                                                  SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

          Season                                (b)
          and/or
          Accli-                                ST Max            id      (c)             Ml
          mation                                                  Lethal  Lethal          Median
          Tamp                                  for       Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median  Lethal
                                                                          Lower   Lethal  Final
                  Optimum Temp (a)              Embryo mation     Upper           AT

Event             Temp  Range MWAT              Survival Time                                     Location                Reference

spawning          5                                                                               Cayuga L., N.Y.         Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                  Trib. Fall Ck., N.Y.    Scott and Crossman 1973
spawning          10                                                                              Montreal, R., Sask.     Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                  Lab                     Otto and Rice 1977
spawning          8
                                                                                                  Lab                     Otto and Rice 1977
40-100 mm; 5                                                      22              A-17            Lab                     Otto and Rice 1977
                                                                                                  Lab                     Otto and Rice 1977
heat                                                                                                                      This study

shock     10                                                      26              +16

shock     15                                                      27              +12

cold shock 15                                                             2.5     - 12.5

                                           8.   10

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.

SPECIES: Cottus ricei (Spoonhead sculpin)

                                                                                                  SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

          Season                                (b)               (c)     (c)             (4
          and/or                                ST Max            Lethal  Lethal
          Accli-                                for       Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median Median
          mation                                Embryo    mation  Upper   Lower
          Temp    Optimum Temp (a)              Survival  Time                    Lethal Lethal

Event             Temp  Range MWAT                                                AT      Final   Location                Reference

spawning          4.5                                                                             Pemichangan L., Quebec  Scott and Crossman 1973
                                                                                                                          This study
                                           4.5

(a) MWAT = maximum weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainmenttemperatures.
SPECIES: Myoxocephalus quadricornis (deepwater sculpin)

Size or Age  Season Day or Upper             Final            Lower            Acclimation Acclimation  PREFERRED TEMPERATURES:
(mm)                        Night Avoidance                                    Temperature Time         Location
                                             Preferendum Avoidance                                                               Reference

large                         4.5                                   4                                   L. Michigan              Coutant 1977a
                                                                                                        Field                    Coutant 1977a
9-18TL                        10             <5                                                         L. Michigan              Brandt et al 1980
9-18TL                                                                                                  (bottom trawl)
             F       N                       2-10                                                       L. Michigan              Mansfield et al 1983
                                             2-6                                                        L. Michigan              Mansfield et al 1983
                     N

             SP      N

SPECIES: Myoxocephalus quadricornis (deepwater sculpin)

                                                                                                                SPAWNING AND DEVELOPMENT TEMPERATURES:

             Season                                      (b)
             and/or
             Accli-                                      ST Max                (c)     id               (d)
             mation                                                            Lethal  Lethal           Median
             Temp                                        for           Accli-  Limit   Limit   Median   Lethal
                                                                                       Lower   Lethal   Final
                        Optimum Temp (a)                 Embryo mation         Upper           AT

Event                   Temp       Range M W A T         Survival Time                                          Location         Reference

incubation              1.5                                                                                                      Mansfield et al 1983

(97d)

(a) MWAT = maximurn weekly average temperature during month of peak spawning, less than or equal to optimum, or middle of range of spawning temperatures.
(b) Short-term (24h) maximum temperature for successful embryo survival (incubation temp) or maximum temperature for spawning.
(c) Not incipient lethal temperatures as defined by Fry et al (1946).
(d) Simulated larval entrainment temperatures.
