PAGES: 4
--- PAGE 1 ---
WISCONSIN DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES 
Fisheries Survey Report for Little Beaver Creek, Dunn County, Wisconsin 
2021 
WATERBODY IDENTIFICATION CODE 2076300 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KASEY YALLALY 
DNR Fisheries Biologist 
Baldwin, Wisconsin 
February 2022 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Introduction 
Little Beaver Creek is a small, low-gradient stream in northern Dunn County that contains 7 
miles of Class II trout water. It flows in a south-easterly direction to its confluence with Big 
Beaver Creek, approximately one mile upstream from the Hay River north of the Village of 
Wheeler. Little Beaver Creek is within the Hay River watershed, which drains mostly forested 
and agricultural land and, to a lesser extent, grassland and wetlands.  
 
Little Beaver Creek is considered a Coldwater, Cool-Cold Headwater under the state's Natural 
Community Determinations. Water temperatures during past surveys indicated poor thermal 
regimes for trout, and few to no trout were detected during those years. No trout stocking 
occurs within the Little Beaver watershed; therefore, all trout are the result of natural 
reproduction. Habitat throughout the stream generally lacks adequate fish cover, and fine 
sediments make up the substrates, according to previous habitat surveys. A 2018 assessment 
indicated that Little Beaver Creek is impaired due to high phosphorus levels.  
 
Methods 
Two stations were sampled on Little Beaver Creek in 2021. Sampling was conducted between 
June 15 and Sept. 15 using a backpack stream shocking unit with a single electrode. The 
length of stations was determined by multiplying the mean stream width by 35. Stations were 
located upstream of 1210th Ave (Station 1) and upstream of 270th St (Station 4). All fish species 
were collected at both stations. All trout were identified by species and measured to the 
nearest 10th of an inch. Non-game fish were identified to species and counted. Catch rates of 
Brook Trout were compared to other Class II Brook Trout streams in the North Central 
Hardwoods ecoregion and percentiles were determined.  
 
The Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) was used to measure biological attributes that are 
influenced by human activities to assess the overall health of the stream. The index uses the 
species assemblage present to assess water quality and thermal regimes within a waterbody. 
Coldwater IBI’s range in score from 0 to 100, with a high score (90-100) interpreted as an 
Excellent Integrity rating and 10-20 interpreted as a Poor Integrity rating.  
 
Study Sites 
Station 1 was located furthest downstream. Habitat was not quantitatively evaluated during 
the surveys. However, anecdotally, the stream at Station 1 flows through a heavily wooded 
corridor with instream habitat consisting of tag alders and some large woody debris. The 
substrate mostly consists of fine sand, sediment and silt. Station 4 was located several miles 
upstream of Station 1 and was also located within a heavily wooded corridor. The stream at 
this location was very shallow, with small pools and some gravel substrate. Because of the 
stream’s small size and overhanging vegetation, visibility for sampling was more limited.  
 
Results 
Brook Trout were the dominant trout species collected at Station 1, and no trout were 
sampled at Station 4 (Table 1). No adult Brook Trout were present at Station 1. Natural 
reproduction was documented at Station 1, as evidenced by the presence of young-of-year 
(YOY) trout. YOY Brook Trout were in moderate abundances at 145 YOY per mile, which is in 
--- PAGE 3 ---
the 75th percentile for Class II Brook Trout streams in the North Central Hardwoods ecoregion 
(Table 1). 
 
Only one other fish species was collected at Station 1, the Mottled Sculpin (Table 2). The 
Coldwater IBI rating for this station was Excellent, with a score of 100. A total of four non-
game fish species were collected in Station 4, which resulted in a Coldwater IBI rating of Very 
Poor, with a score of 0 (Table 2). The Warmwater IBI rating for this station was Poor, with a 
score of 40. Creek Chubs were the dominant species at Station 4 and were in high abundance 
(Table 2).  
 
Discussion 
Trout resources are limited in Little Beaver Creek, with trout only detected at Station 1. No 
adult trout were present at this station, and YOY trout were present in moderate 
abundances. The stream likely serves as an important tributary for spawning fish from Big 
Beaver Creek and, with little to no adult fish habitat present (at least) within the sampling 
station, adult fish may migrate back into Big Beaver Creek or the Hay River after spawning for 
more preferred overwintering habitat. The 1993 survey of this station occurred in early 
September and found small adult Brook Trout in low abundances, while no trout were 
detected in the 2010 survey. No trout have been detected in the 1993, 2010 or 2021 surveys of 
Station 4 of Little Beaver Creek. According to the fish community present, the thermal regime 
at this station is too warm for trout survival and reproduction. Instream habitat is very 
limited and not adequate for trout, especially for multiple year-classes.  
 
A total of four fish species were sampled at Station 4, including Creek Chub, Brook 
Stickleback, Fathead Minnow and Blacknose Dace. Because of the lack of trout and other 
coldwater species, the stream at Station 4 received a Very Poor Coldwater IBI rating. This 
indicates degraded conditions and a fish community that reflects warmwater conditions. The 
Excellent Coldwater IBI rating at Station 1 indicates excellent water quality and coldwater 
conditions with little to no effects of degradation or pollutants.  
 
Little Beaver Creek is currently classified as a Class II trout stream. According to this and 
previous surveys from 1993 and 2010, the stream should be reclassified to a Class III and 
declassified near Station 4. However, more sampling is needed to determine the appropriate 
extent of Class III status upstream of Station 1.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--- PAGE 4 ---
 
Table 1. Relative abundance (Catch per Effort; Trout per mile) of Brook Trout captured at two stations on 
Little Beaver Creek, summer 2021.  
 
  ST. 1 ST. 4 
Year Juv. Adult Juv.   Adult 
1993 0 48 0 0 
2010 0 0 0 0 
2021 145 0 0 0 
 
 
Table 2. Total number of each species captured at two stations on Little Beaver Creek, summer 2021.  
 
SPECIES ST. 1 ST. 4 
Brook Trout 9 0 
Mottled Sculpin 1 0 
Creek Chub 0 81 
Brook Stickleback 0 3 
Fathead Minnow 0 1 
Blacknose Dace 0 9 
 
 
 
